JUDGMENT OF 19.3.64	CASE 18/63


must take the form which corresponds most closely to the nature of the damage. As she is willing to take up her former duties without delay she asks the Court to declare that the contract subsists.
On this matter the defendant makes no specific observations.
3. Third head ef the conclusions
The applicant sets out in detail the cir­ cumstances which must be taken into account in calculating damages.
The defendant draws attention to the fact that the present submission depends on the supposition (put forward in the alternative) that there is no right to integration. Consequently one cannot understand how the applicant can ask for compensation equivalent to the amount of the overall salary which she would obtain if she worked without interruption until the age of 65 in the service of the defendant.
4. Fourth head ef the conclusions
The applicant declares that the damage caused to her by the infringement of the disciplinary provisions and of her right to defend herself is adequately com­ pensated by the symbolic amount of l franc 'unless the Court considers that the annulment which it pronounces constitutes of itself adequate compensa­ tion'.
The defendant replies that the temporary suspension of the applicant is not a disciplinary but an administrative mea­ sure.
The applicant replies that the charac­ teristic of disciplinary measures is to 'harm the person against whom such measures are directed or his goods or honour'; in this case the applicant's honour was affected.
An administrative measure is only con­ ceivable and logical as the preliminary step in a disciplinary procedure when it is a question of removing from his position a servant whose presence has
94

become undesirable.
The defendant replies that the right of the Administration to adopt measures of this type stems directly from disciplinary power and must consequently be recog­ nized, even in the absence of an express provision. The suspension at issue had the exclusive aim of creating the most favourable conditions possible for the pursuit of the enquiry which had been set up because of the conduct of the applicant at the time of the traffic accident. The enquiry had no punitive aim and this stems from the fact that the Commission retained the applicant at her overall salary together with all the benefits attaching to her position.
5. 	Sixth (sic) head ef the conclusions accord- ing to the application
In her reply the applicant withdraws this head of the conclusions and substitutes for it a new one (see below, point 6). She justifies such withdrawal as follows:
(a) The applicant does not maintain her reservations;
(b) 	There is now no point in this head since, in the reply, the applicant raised fresh issues necessary to refute those put forward in the statements of defence;
(c) The applicant interprets the argu­ ments in the statement of defence as meaning that the defendant does not contest the facts which have been set out in the application. The offer that witnesses should give evidence is thus no longer necessary. With regard to point (c) the defendant replies that, even in its statement of defence, it contested in a very definite manner the applicant's as­ sertions that the administration had given her assurances concerning her integration. The defendant main­ tains its deniaI.

6. Sixth head of the conclusions according to the reply
The applicant sets out the reasons why she
