HOEKSTRA v BEDRIJFSVERENIGING DETAILHANDEL


to it within the framework of a case presently before it, fall outside the ap­ praisal of the Court ofJustice. There are, however, grounds for considering gener­ ally whether the Court should, if neces­ sary, draw the attention of the Nether­ lands court to the fact that it has omitted to include essential points in its con­ siderations.
2. Questions put by the Netherlands court
The appellant stresses in particular the following arguments:
As opposed to international treaties, Community Regulations do not limit themselves to coordinating the respec­ tive national laws but integrate them. Thus Regulation No 3 creates an inde­ pendent European social law and con­ tains specifically Community concepts. As the text of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community shows, Article 51 deals with social security as an aspect of the freedom of movement of workers.
These principles have led the appellant to consider that the concept of 'wage­ earner' in Article 4 (1) of Regulation No 3 'has its own European meaning determined by the requirements of the freedom of movement of workers' com­ plementing the corresponding concepts of the national systems or, in their absence, taking their place.
The appellant belongs to the said group of persons formerly compulsorily in­ sured, referred to in Article 64 (1) of the Ziektewet. The Raad van Beroep based its finding, in accordance with which the appellant is not 'assimilated' within the meaning of Regulation No 3, on the fact that in deciding the scope of this status the Ziektewet did not employ the 'legal fiction that a voluntarily insured person is considered as a wage-earner or assimi­ lated worker within the meaning of the Ziektewet'; this purely formal point of view is untenable. The appellant was

admitted to a scheme of voluntary in­ surance pursuant to Article 64 because it was to be supposed that once she was no longer incapacitated for work, she would have a new job. Consequently she retained her status as a worker, so that Article 19 (1) of Regulation No 3 applies to her and there are, on the contrary, no grounds for applying Article 11 (2) (a) of the rules of the respondent at present in force.
The argument of the Raad van Beroep,
according to which a wage-earner with­ in the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation No 3 is a person who is a worker within the meaning of the corresponding national law, and an 'assimilated worker' is a person who has been assimilated by an authentic inter­ pretation, is no longer accurate. The appellant refers to a series of social laws of the Netherlands which do not con­ tain the criterion of 'wage-earner' and which nevertheless come under that provision in accordance with Annex B to Regulation No 3. This also shows that the concept of a wage-earner appearing in the Regulation has its own meaning.
The German Government considers 'that, if Regulation No 3 contains a single criterion of wage-earner or assimilated worker, it refers in large part to the national law on social security to deter­ mine its meaning'.
It submits the following observations in particular:
According to Article 4 (1) of Regulation No 3, this Regulation 'shall apply equally1 to wage-earners or assimilated workers who are ... subject to the legis­ lation of one or more of the Member States' and who fulfil certain other con­ ditions (nationality etc.). According to Article 1 (b) of the Regulation, taken in conjunction with Articles 2 and 3 of the Regulation and Annex B thereto, the term 'legislation' must be understood as referring to the legislation of the Mem-



I - Translator's Note: The word 'equally' does not in fact occur in the text of the Regulation.


181
