MANNESMANN v HIGH AUTHORITY


from the decisions setting up the financial arrangement that the undertaking to which the scrap is delivered is the creditor of the equalization payments. The applicants do not dispute that payments in respect of equalization were made; the applicants alone could claim the right to receive those payments, and the DSVG did in fact give the undertakings valuable consideration by paying off a part of the purchase price which they owed, when it transferred the equaliza­ tion amounts to the sellers of the scrap.

This situation is not altered if the existence of an agency between the applicants and the Joint Bureau is a accepted.
as to (bb)

(i) The applicants state that they can only have acquired the scrap in dispute on the basis of a contract concluded between the Joint Bureau and the scrap sellers; the appli­ cants did not themselves buy the goods.

That contract did not bind them directly, since, if the Joint Bureau was acting by their order and for their account, it could not have been acting in their name.

Decisions No 14/55 (Article 5) and No 2/57 (Article 11) contain the rule that, 'after ob­ taining the agreement of the Fund on its proposals, the Joint Bureau shall be compe­ tent to negotiate purchases for the joint ac­ count, the contracts of purchase, however, being concluded directly between the sel­ lers and the consumers concerned'; but the Joint Bureau can, 'to the extent necessary for ensuring an orderly supply to the common market, also directly conclude contracts of purchase (and of affreigh­ tment) for the account of consumers to be named subsequently'.

The applicants maintain that, by regularly employing the second possibility, the Joint Bureau therefore continuously acquired shipbreaking scrap as purchaser; this is also the case in the present action.

For its part, the defendant maintains that under Article 4 of the general conditions of the OCCF contract the DSVG's nomina-

tion of the undertaking as the buyer makes the contract legally binding on that under­ taking. The defendant asks on what legal basis the applicants could have acquired and paid for the scrap other than on that of a purchase at common law.

The Joint Bureau did not itself purchase, it did not receive any delivery of scrap, it did not by itself carry out any payment for scrap or resell any scrap to the applicants. Thus all the factors capable of supporting the con­ struction defended by the applicants are lacking.	•

The basic decisions Nos 14/55 and 2/57 clearly bring out the principle that the Joint Bureau must only exceptionally be the buy­ er itself and that it must never acquire title to scrap which is inside the Community.

This fundamental principle of the decisions alone contradicts the applicants' idea that the Joint Bureau acquired the scrap itself and then resold it to them.

The defendant also points out that pursuant to the 'general agreements' and to the gen­ eral contractual provisions supplementing them the purchases of scrap were con­ cluded 'always by the order of and for the account of undertakings to be named sub­ sequently'.

This High Authority further points out other general provisions of the contracts, tending to show that the undertakings are indeed the buyers of the scrap.

(ii) The applicants also maintain that a pur­ chasing order, which governs the internal relations between the Joint Bureau and the applicants, could not amount to a power of agency or make the applicants, through the medium of the Joint Bureau, the direct con­ tracting partners of Hansa. Therefore, the Joint Bureau did not purchase in the name of the applicants and never received any such power of agency in relation to Hansa.

According to the defendant, there is no doubt that in practice the agent needs a power of agency in order to carry out his task.

123
