JUDGMENT OF 23.4.1956 - JOINED CASES 7 AND 9/54


'is incontestably in the nature of a general charge';
'Because of its very limited amount' the levy is not capable 'of affecting the condi­ tions of competition in the Common Mar­ ket'.
In the rejoinder, the defendant, whilst ad­ mitting that 'in view of the industrial struc­ ture of Luxembourg, charges imposed on non-domestic consumers are in fact essen­ tially imposed on the iron and steel indus­ tries to a doubtless considerable extent' re­ fuses to conclude 'that the economic struc­ ture ofLuxembourg precludes the Govern­ ment from taking any economic measures in relation to the industries including fiscal measures as they would all have to be treated as special measures for the iron and steel industry and on those grounds prohibited'.
Regardless of the rebuttal of the arguments of the applicant, the defendant puts for­ ward with regard to various points of the Treaty the interpretation which seems to it to be in accordance with the intention of those who drafted it and to be capable of shedding light on the question whether the Caisse de Compensation is compatible with the Treaty:
It first suggests a criterion enabling a dis­ tinction to be made between special charges and general charges: 'In the first place, it is necessary for that subsidy, aid or charge to be of a special nature, that is, for it to concern exclusively undertakings or products of the Community' ... •As soon as the subsidy, aid or charge concerns a group which includes the undertakings or pro­ ducts of the Community but goes beyond them what is involved is a general measure which could only come if necessary within the application of Article 67';
It then establishes a distinction 'between subsidies, aids or charges affecting under­ takings and those affecting products of the Community'. In the second case 'any sub­ sidy, aid or special charge applicable to a product of the Community at any one point of distribution is prohibited only if its indirect result is either to distort compe­ tition or to involve a benefit for or advan­ tage to undertakings of the Community';


The defendant finally justifies its restric­ tive interpretation of the wording of Arti­ cle 4 (c) by means of two arguments based, first, on Article l l of the Convention on the Transitional Provisions and, secondly, on the 'power retained by the Member States, in particular in tax matters'.

The first argument, an argument reasoning to the converse, is based on the fact that 'the provision refers only to charges im­ posed on products of the Community themselves'.
The second argument is based on the fact that the Member States have the right to increase orto create charges or duties 'even if they are imposed only on products of the Community'; it is therefore 'permissible to impose on those products a charge which is not in the nature ofa tax and which, on the one hand, has the same economic effects and, on the other, is not incompatible with the other prohibitions laid down by Article 4'.

V. The equalization system established by the Caisse de Compensation is alleged to infringe Article 4 (b) of the Treaty.
The application states that 'the establish­ ment in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of a Caisse de Compensation for solid fuels has involved ... the creation of discrimina­ tion between consumers of solid fuels for non-domestic use of the European Coal and Steel Community and Luxembourg consumers of this type of fuel .. .'.
The reply states that this discrimination comes within Article 4 (b) (special charge) and not within Article 67 (an action by a Member State which is liable to provoke a serious disequilibrium).
In fact, the levy:

(a) is not a duty: it does not serve 'to cover all public charges' since the Ministerial Or­ der of8 March 1954 'allocates it specially and exclusively';

(b) 'may not be considered as a charge ei­ ther since a charge consists in a levy im­ posed on certain individuals for a specific service provided for them by the Adminis­ tration'.
(a) 

186
