OPINION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 228 OF THE EEC TREATI


negouauon of which was not entirely finished might be referred. to it under Article 228.

In spite of the fact that, apart from certain essential economic elements of the agreement on natural rubber, certain of its provisions are still under negotiation, the provisions and mechanisms proposed for the future agreement are already known in sufficient detail to enable the Court of Justice to give a definitive reply to the question referred to it by the Commission, it being understood that in order to do so the Court will have to consider the draft agreement as it is on the date on which it gives its opinion.

The divergence of views between the Council and the Commission on the question of the scope of the Community's powers to enter into negotiations and, if appropriate, conclude an international agreement on natural rubber relates, apart from this specific case, to the general question of the interpretation of Article 113 of the Treaty. This case might enable the Court to "clarify" this general question. However, the purpose of the request for an opinion is strictly limited to an assessment of the compatibility of the draft International Agreement on Natural Rubber with the provisions of the Treaty. In particular, those provisions must prevail over any other con­ sideration in determining, in this case, whether the agreement must be concluded by the Community alone or in the form of a "mixed-type" agreement, in which both the Community and its Member States will participate.


B -	Power to negotiate and conclude the proposed	International	Agreement	on Natural Rubber
The Commission takes the view that the Community alone is empowered, under

Article 113 of the EEC Treaty, to parti­ cirate in the negotiation and conclusion o the agreement.



(a) In this case the question is one of determining the extent of the Community's powers in the field of commercial policy. In this respect it should be noted that neither Article 113, which merely enumerates some of the objectives which come within the scope of commercial policy, nor any other provision in the Treaty defines what is meant by "commercial policy"; this omission is partly made good by the decisions of the Court.



The content of the subjects expressly referred to in Article 113 (changes in tariff rates, the conclusion of tariff and commercial agreements, liberalization measures, export policy, measures to protect trade including those to be taken in the case of dumping and subsidies) is scarcely open to discussion. The concept of "export policy" was defined by the Court which, in its Opinion 1/75, reaffirmed that it "necessarily covers systems of aid for exports".



The field of commercial policy cannot however be restricted to the non­ exhaustive assertions of Article 113. The case-law of the Court supplies general criteria making it possible to decide whether a given measure is or is not to be regarded as coming within the scope of that article.



The Court (Opinion 1/75; the judgment of 15 December 1976 in Case 41176,

2883
