JUDGMENT OF 21. 6. 1958 - CASE 13/57


lion imposed upon excess•consumption; or­ der the High Authority to bear the costs. The defendant contends that the Court of Justice should: di IJliss the application sub­ mitted on 12 Marth 1957 by the applicants in that part thereof is inadmissible and the remainder is unfounded; order the appli­ cants to bear the costs.

3. Submissions and arguments of the parties
A -  Admissibility

I . Whether the contested decision consti­ tutes a series of decisions which are in­ dividual in character within the meaning qf the second paragraph qf Article 33 qf the Treaty and which concern each of the applicants in particular

The defendant states that a decision as an entity cannot be broken down in terms of the various ways in which it is implemented to maintain that it is individual or general. The Court has delivered a judgment to this effect in Case 8/55 (Rec. 1955-1956, p. 224). It may not be inferred that the decision is individual in character because, as it is alleged, Article 8 is in the nature of a pen­ alty. Such an inference would disregard the meaning and the objective of the supple­ mentary rate. The collection procedure laid down in Article 12 of the decision is in-ac­ cordance with current practice in all public charges, and with the general levies of the High·Authority (Article 50 of the Treaty). Decision No 2/57 establishes a general leg­ islative principle: it imposes abstract condi­ tions and sets out the legal consequences thereof. The decision is general in character and it follows that the applicants' com­ plaints are inadmissible in so far as they are based on an alleged infringement of the Treaty.
The applicants reply that proof of the indi­
vidual character of the contested provisions is provided by three points:

(a) 	that each of the various provisions of the decision affects a clearly-specified group of undertakings, which cannot be increased, for example, the undertak­ ings referred to by Article 6 (2) and (3)

which put new plant, within the mean­ ing of the said Article 6, into operation between I February 1957 and 31 Jan­ uary 1958;

(b) that the supplementary rate is in the na­ ture of a penalty;

(c) 	that Article 13 of the decision requires undertakings which are members of the Office commun des consommateurs de ferraille (the Joint Bureau of Ferrous Scrap Consumers, hereinafter referred to as 'the OCCF') and of the Caisse de perequation des ferrailles importees (the Imported Ferrous Scrap Equaliza­ tion Fund, hereinafter referred to as 'the CPFI') to amend the statutes of those institutions.
In each of these three cases the group of per­ sons concerned is clearly specified. Conse­ quently Decision No 2/57 must be con­ sidered as a series of individual decisions thereby permitting the undertakings to make submissions concerning infringe­ ment of the Treaty and not only concerning misuse of powers.

2. Whether claims based upon different and quite distinct interests may be sub­ mitted in the same application

The d fendant states that, although the joint application concerns the same subject­ matter, different grounds are relied upon by each applicant to show how it has been harmed by the contested decision. The var­ ious difficulties upon which each one relies prove that the undertakings cannot have been harmed by all the provisions which form the subject-matter of a joint applica­ tion. The High Authority relies upon the Court to settle whether this accumulation of individual applications is admissible.
The applicants reply that the High Author­ ity is trying to introduce into Community law a prohibition on joint applications. In French law such applications are prohibited on tax grounds, since each application is subject to stamp duty. This rule is unknown to German procedure. Furthermore, the joinder of a number of applications cannot bring about their dismissal, only their dis-


270
