SAN MICHELE v HI<'.;H AtJ'rHORITV


invoices in question because they were too bulky, the fact nevertheless remains, so the defendant concludes, that if they had asked their suppliers for copies of these invoices as soon as they (the applicants) were notified of the Decisions of 23 February 1962 and not after they were notified of the Decisions of 18 December 1962 they would have avoided, at least in part, exposing them­ selves to the consequences of which they complain in the present applications.

IV-Procedure
The procedure followed the normal course.
After the reply had been lodged, the applicants in several of the cases pro­ duced copies of the correspondence with the High Authority concerning imple­ mentation of the Decisions of 18 December 1962. To justify the sub-


mission of these documents they refer to a letter concerning Case 2/63 pro­ duced by the defendant as a schedule to its rejoinder. They argue that since this letter was produced as being repre­ sentative, although it was not of this nature, it is indispensible that the en­ tire correspondence between the parties in each case on the same question be submitted to the Court. The applicants in the other cases have reserved the right to produce like documents if need should arise.
By Order of the Court of 14 March 1963 the present cases were joined for the purpose of the written procedure, the oral procedure and the judgment.
Upon hearing the report of the Judge­ Rapporteur and upon hearing the Advocate-General, the Court decided to put written questions to the parties, calling upon them to give their replies before 19 October 1963.





Admissibility

Grounds of judgment

1. The defendant contests the admissibility of the present applications pointing out first that they are made in fact against the Decisions of 23 February 1962 and that they bring before the Court questions already settled by it in its judg­ ment of 14 December 1962.
The applications made against the Decisions of 23 February 1962 on which the Court ruled in its judgment of 14 December 1962 concerned the power of the High Authority to require production of the invoices for electric energy consumed by the applicants. In the first applications the applicants maintained that such a power had no basis in Article 47 of the Treaty.

The present applications on the other hand are concerned with the pecuniary sanctions imposed by the Decisions of 18 December 1962 for failure to pro­ duce these invoices. As to this the applicants make the point that failure to produce these invoices cannot be considered as an infringement of the Decisions of 23 February 1962, the invoices having been destroyed in accord­ ance with the national law applicable in this case. The subject matter of the present applications is thus different from that of the applications against the Decisions of 23 February 1962.

339
