JUDGMENT OF 16. 12. 1963 - CASE 18/62


in this respect that the furnace did not necessarily operate as intensively during the period to which the extrapolation relates as during the reference period, and that there may have been periods of running-in or inactivity.
(c) The applicant goes on to emphasize
the differences between the letter sent to it by the defendant on 17 January 1962 (Schedule 6 to the application) and the

The applicant also criticizes the minutes of the meeting of experts held on 13 February 1962 at the defendant's request (Schedule 2 to the statement of defence). She points out that the note prepared by the High Authority to serve as a basis for the experts' dis­ cussions has not been produced and it does not appear that the minutes of the meeting of 13 February 1962 and the

disputed Decisions of 23 May 1962. She,	graph of consumption attached to it

states that, despite the brief interval of three months separating these docu­ ments, the figures of the assessable tonnages and the corresponding debit balances contained in the letter of 17 January 1962 have been considerably increased in the Decisions of 23 May 1962 although those figures were cal­ culated by the same inductive method. She submits from the above that there are no valid grounds for the Decisions.
The defendant replies that the letter of
17 January 1962 was merely an act of courtesy and a precautionary measure with a view to obtaining from the applicant preliminary data in order the better to ensure the equitable nature of the decisions in the process of elabora­ tion. But the disputed Decisions are not insufficiently reasoned, since they con­ tain all the data necessary to justify the conclusions reached by the High Authority concerning the assessable tonnages and the sums due.
4. With regard to the inductive find­ ings and the opinion of experts on this method
The applicant disputes the fact that the consumption of electric energy, by itself, is capable of enabling an exact inductive assessment to be arrived at of the amount of bought ferrous scrap consumed by a given iron and steel undertaking. She refers in this respect to the case law of the Court (Judgment of 14 December 1962 in Joined Cases 5 to 11/62 and 13 to 15/62, Acciaierie San Michele and others v High Authority).

268

were approved by the experts. She goes on to contest the experts' declarations appearing in the minutes and observes that there was not unreserved agree­ ment on the figures proposed by the High Authority. The applicant produces a technical opinion drawn up at her request by six experts on 20 November 1962 (Schedule 1 to the reply). Accord­ ing to these experts, at the meeting of 13 February 1962, the subject of which was a problem concerning the smaller iron and steel undertakings, no repre­ sentative of those undertakings in fact participated. In the applicant's opinion, her experts decisively refuted the con­ cept on which the High Authority's calculation is based, stating that it can constitute only one of numerous factors to be checked. Hence the applicant asks the Court to appoint experts in order to establish 'whether it is reasonable and justified to determine inductively the consumption of ferrous scrap in electric furnaces of small capacity ex­ clusively by the method of calculation proposed by the High Authority and to deduce therefrom the exact sums owed by the applicant who is com­ pulsorily subject to the equalization scheme'.
The  applicant  then  disputes  the
defendant's statement that the criterion for calculating kWh per metric ton had been fixed in a way which was most favourable to the person subject to the levy and that consequently there could be no error as to an over-assessment but only as to an under-assessment. She points out that in this field one
