SIDERURGIE FRANCAISE v HIGH AUTHORITY


The defendant replies that Ar:tide 63
(2) of the Treaty makes no menci.on either of stages or of the number of transactions.
The  -producers  referred  to by Article
80 are directly subject to Anticle 60. Artide 63 (2) relates to the extension of the obligations of :public law im­ posed on producers; a second obliga­ tion of ,public law is imposed on the latter: that of imposing an obligation in civil law.
On whom must tha,t obligation be im­ posed? Artide 63 (2) gives the answer: On all those who have a contractual connexion with the producer either by sales contracts (purchasers for resade), or agency contracts or commission con­ tracts. In other words, it extends tto all distributors who may come into direct contact ,with the producer.
Article 63 (3) provides additional means of action, with regard both to distribu­ tor undertakings which cannot be bound by means of Article 63 (2) and ro other kinds of measures a,pplicable to any dis­ tributor whether or not affected by Article 63 (2).
The contested decisions indeed apply to a situation coming under Articles 60 and 63 (2). This holds good with regard to the obligations of the !Producers. It also holds good with regard to .the pro­ ducers' opportunities of directly contact­ ing ,the distributors referred to.
The defendant concludes from this that, since it was in a position to which Article 63 (2) was applicable, it had not committed a misuse of procedure. The applicants reply that the defen­ dant's allegat:ion, with regard it:o the obligation imposed by Ar-tide 63 (2) on producers to require an obligation in civil faw from all distributors whom they can directly contact, cannot justify the contested decisions.
In fact these decisions, by bringing in selling agencies, which, although en­ joying legal independence, are assimi­ lated to a d partment of the undertak­ ir.gs, mean that the obligations of these

undertakings fall upon distributors, something which could not have hap­ pened under the previous system.
In order to bring this about, the High Authority was led artificially to contest the de facto independence of the sales organizations, despite their legal struc­ ture and iby a description based on criteria of fact disputed by the a,ppli­ cants. AM of these serious defects would have 1been avoided if the High Authority had employed the normal procedure, that is, the recommendations jprovided for lby Artide 63 (3); but it preferred to achieve i,rs aim by means of a decision.
The defendant replies that by arousing the High Authority of committing a misuse of procedure the appticants have made no more than a mere allegation. Moreover they appear ,to attack the High Authority's ipurpose, which accord­ ing to them is an extension of super­ vision, and the method used, that is to say, treating the seiling agencies as distribution departments of the pro­ ducers.
On the other hand the aipp1icants' state­ ments contain no factor which might support the submission of misuse of procedure in connexion with the situa­ tion created with regard to the agents and commission agents which is how­ ever referred to in <the request for annulment.
(a) The contested decisions did not, and moreover could not, have as their pw,pose to settle the general pro'blem of supervision. Article 8 (3) of the revised Decision No 30/53, as awears from the contested decisions, indeed provides ,that ,the producers shall furnish the High Authority with all ,partioulars of the commercial operations of the middlemen who are either their em­ ployees or direct agents or their authorized agents. But this is not an obligation imposed under Ar-tide 47 or the fourth iparagraph of Article 83 of the Trea<ty, buit: merely a corollary of Article 63 (2) (b), which ·provides that

451
