NETHERLANDS v HIGH AUTHORITY


menting them is impossible, unless the High Authority and undertakings have prior knowledge of transport rates and conditions.
It is certain first of all that the High Authority cannot detect cases of dis­ crimination unless it is provided with basic terms of reference for appraising transport rates offered to consumers and not merely information supplied ex post facto concerning transport which has already been carried out.
As far as undertakings are concerned there is discrimination and the con­ ditions of competition are distorted if an undertaking or a category of under­ takings is in a position to establish its price list with full knowledge of the delivered prices of their competitors, whilst others cannot do so. On the other hand the whole machinery for align­ ment is based on a knowledge of the possible transport costs for products offered by competing undertakings.
The distinction between publication and communication, to which the con­ tested Recommendation is not in any way opposed, in no way implies that the High Authority is prevented from giving third parties information with the help of particulars which have been brought to its knowledge. Quite the reverse is true. The general principles applicable in the case of transport are those which characterize the whole of the Treaty: publicity and non-discrimination.
The applicant claims that the arguments of the interveners, which have the merit of being frank, prove clearly that the Recommendation does more than remindStatesoftheirexistingobligations. The essential question is, therefore, whether the High Authority can, con­ trary to the opinion of the applicant, impose upon Member States by way ofa binding recommendation its own view of the scope of the obligations which devolve upon them and of the connexion between the third paragraph of Article 70 and certain other provisions of the Treaty.

The applicant points out that these 'other provisions' in the view of the High Authority are decisive for the purpose of the application of the third paragraph of Article 70 and that the contested Recommendation limits in this respect the number of possible solutions because it eliminates some of them.
It holds the view that the Treaty does not provide that information communic­ ated to the High Authority may be brought to the knowledge of third parties. Finally it argues that neither an appropriate fixing of prices nor appro­ priate operation of alignments depends in fact upon the publication and fixing of transport costs. It is never impossible for a producer to ascertain current prices.
Article 2
The applicant maintains that Article 2 of the Recommendation, which obliges Member States to adopt general and special measures in respect of checks and sanctions, is an interference, pro­ hibited by the Treaty, with the sovereignty of Member States, who in this field have retained their power to make regulations.
The defendant is of the opinion that the legal foundation of Article 2 of the Recommendation is the first paragraph of Article 86 of the Treaty·.
The High Authority has no power to check and, if necessary, apply sanctions against transport undertakings whose practices tend to frustrate the efforts made to achieve the objectives of the Treaty. That is why it has asked Member States to make provision, in the laws and regulations to be adopted in order to attain the aims stated in the Recom­ mendation, for the possibility of checks and the imposition of sanctions without which such measures would be a dead letter.
Article 2 does not in any way adversely affect the sovereignty of Member States. On the contrary the objection could be
229
