NJEDERRHEJNISCHE BERG\X'ERKS AU v HIGH Al'TIIORITY


the question whether the High Authority's finding that the economy of a Member State showed signs of risks of fundamental and persistent disturbances was properly made.
  (bb) The conclusions concerning Articles 3 and 5 of the contested decision
The defendant maintains that neither Arti­ cle 3 nor Article 5 relating to the manner of allocating the supply quotas constitute in­ dividual measures as, even if it is possible to see the obligation set out in the first paragraph of Article 3 as an individual recommendation to the Belgian Govern­ ment, the second paragraph of Article 3 and Article 5, by fixing quotas for imports, af­ fect the rights of all countries of the Com­ munities	and	undertakings		in	those countries. Therefore Articles 3 and 5 may only be contested from the point of view of misuse of powers. Even if it is accepted that they are individual decisions or recommen- • dations, the defendant considers that there must at least be some doubt whether the ap­ plicants are sufficiently affected by these measures	 to be entitled	to institute proceedings.
The applicants raise the objection that not only the first paragraph of Article 3 but also the second paragraph of that article and Ar­ ticle 5 have no effect erga omnes. In addi­ tion, the applicants' interests are directly af­ fected by these provisions since their im­ plementation is not a mere possibility but a certainty.
Therefore all the conditions of admissibility set out in the second paragraph of Article 33 are fulfilled.
B The conclusions relating to compensa- tion
With regard to the conclusions whereby the applicants request the Court to hold that the contested decision involves a fault of such a nature as to render the Community liable, the defendant alleges that pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 34 the Court may only make such a finding if the decision at issue had been previously, or was simultaneously, declared void. The inadmis­ sibility of the application for annulment

therefore entails the inadmissibility of the alternative demand.
2. The substance of the case A	The principal conclusions
(a) Infringement of the Treaty
The applicants allege that the defendant in­ frin_ged the first and second paragraphs of Art!de 37, the first paragraph of Article 2, Arucle 3(b), (d) and (g), Article 4(a), (b) and (d), Article 5 and Article 8 of the Treaty.
They first deny the existence in the Belgian economy of disturbance showing the degree of intensity required by the first paragraph of Article 37 of the Treaty and they main­ tain that there are no grounds for supposing that a certain subsequent reduction in the sale of Belgian coal, as is evident in all the other countries of the Community which produce coal, would give rise to troubles of this nature.
The applicants also deny the existence of the other condition required by the first paragraph of Article 37 which was postulated by the High Authority in Article 1 of the contested decision: failure to act on its part provoking the abovementioned dis­ turbance; in fact, failure by the High Authority to intervene could only provoke the disturbances referred to in Article 37 of the Treaty if these had been caused by the omission of a measure by the High Authority which was admissible by the terms of provisions other than the second paragraph of Article 37 of the Treaty.
Moreover, the wording used in the second paragraph of Article 37 ('decide on the measures to be taken ... in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty') clearly shows that the High Authority must take decisions pursuant .to the second paragraph of Article 37 only in so far as other provisions of the Treaty authorize it to do so.
In reply to this argument, the defendant emphasizes first that the authors of the Treaty themselves recognized that there is a close correlation between the activities of the mining industry and the whole of the Belgian economy: this is clear from Article
139
