INDUSTRIES SIDERURGIQUES LUXEMBOURGEOISES V HIGH AUTHORITY


missions', in other words a 'genuine rene­ wal of the procedure'. In its opinion it is impossible to permit 'the action to be con­ tinued on the basis of Article 35'.
In its reply the applicant defends the ad­ missibility of the first application by main­ taining that 'the right to lodge an applica­ tion against the implied decision of refusal was acquired on the expiry of the period of two months laid down in Article 35 of the Treaty'.
In its rejoinder the defendant does not raise any new argument to that reply. It refers to its previous defence and specifies that it 'certainly did not wish to raise a formal plea of inadmissibility to the applicant's application'. In fact, it admits that 'the comments of the High Authority could not in any case result in preventing the Court from giving a decision on the substance of the problem'.
This argument is therefore simply submit­ ted to the Court because 'although it has no practical significance for the purposes of the proceedings instituted by the appli­ cant, it has an interest as a matter of prin­ ciple for the executive of the Community which awaits guidance from the case-law of the Court so as to beable to take account thereof in its future actions'.

(c) Does the applicant still have a legal in­ terest in proceeding with its action at law after the repeal by the Ministerial Order of 12 September 1955, as from 2 April 1955, of the Ministerial Order of 8 March 1954 concerning the operation of the Caisse de Compensation for solid fuels attached to the Office Commercial du Ravitaillement?

Since the reply had already been received at the Court at the date on which this new factor occurred, the Second Chamber asked the applicant during the above-men­ tioned preparatory inquiry:

'Do the rules with which the Luxembourg Government has replaced the system in question seem to the applicant to give it what it would have obtained if the High Authority had not refused its request of 14 July 1954?
If the answer is in the affirmative, in what, in its opinion, does the interest which it re-

tains in proceeding with its action at law consist?'

The applicant replied to these questions that:

'The new system established by the Lux­ embourg Government maintains the pre­ vious special charge and the previous dis­ crimination under a different form. How­ ever, since the Caisse de Compensation has been abolished for the future, applica­ tions such as those lodged by the Groupe­ ment have become purposeless as regards the future:

On the other hand, as the Luxembourg Government maintained the Caisse de Compensation for the period prior to 2 April 1955, the question at issue, which is whether the Caisse de Compensation is compatible with the provisions of the Treaty, remains unanswered with regard to the past and must be decided by the Court, which has exclusive jurisdiction over it. The measure of the interest of the Groupement in the question is the amount of the equalization increases which are payable by the Luxembourg iron and steel industry for the period in question, from I March 1954 to 31 March 1955, in other
words 28 171 984 Belgian francs.'

(d) Does the applicant have the capacity to institute proceedings in view of the special nature of the dispute?
The intervener considers that

'the Groupement is an association of prod­ ucer undertakings in the steel sector;· on the other hand, with regard to the coal sec­ tor, its nature is that of a consumer organ­ ization. The dispute brought before the Court by the applications lodged by the Groupement relates however exclusively · to coal. The Luxembourg Government considers that only a coal-producing un­ dertaking or an association of such under­ takings has capacity to institute such pro­ ceedings; on the other hand, an association of undertakings which institutes proceed­ ings and which, in this instance, can only institute proceedings in its capacity as an

183
