ACCIAIERIE NAPOLETANE v IDGH AUTHORITY


decision on the essential ground that the undertaking was unable to prove the nature of the alloy scrap is based on an artificial analysis of that decision. After recounting the obstacles placed by the FAN in the way of the High Authority's checks, the High Authority arrived at its conclusions on the basis of several factors and of a check which was not only deductive, but inductive.
It then proceeds to observe that the presence of other metals does not suffice for the ferrous scrap to be considered as alloy scrap. For this it is necessary that the content in other metals should attain specified percentages. These percentages were shown by Resolution No 17 of the Fund of 24 April 1958. But the applicant itself does not dispute that the under­ takings were already acquainted with these percentages, since the said resolution merely adopted criteria and sanctioned a practice already extremely widespread.
For these reasons therefore, it is clearly a necessary condition of the High Authority's accepting the ferrous scrap as being alloy scrap that the alloy content should be known. In the same way as ferrous scrap which, whilst containing other metals, does not attain the percentages laid down as necessary by the High Authority, may be considered as ordinary scrap, similarly, and on much stronger grounds, ferrous scrap, containing unknown percentages of other metals, cannot be considered as alloy scrap. The applicant supplied the necessary in­ formation with regard to two deliveries of ferrous scrap which the High Authority accepted as being alloy scrap, in 1956 and . in 1958; but it has produced no like information with regard to the quantities of ferrous scrap in dispute.
In these circumstances, exempting the ferrous scrap in dispute from the equaliza­ tion scheme would have tended to cause a discrimination against the other under­ takings coming under it to the detriment of those which properly established the nature of their alloy scrap.
It is incorrect to assume that in this case the content in alloying elements ·cannot be stated owing to the considerable lapse of time since the purchases of ferrous scrap were declared.
First, it emerges from the declarations

made by certain firms (for example, Bona­ da), for purchases between 1955 and 1957, that in 1958 all these deliveries had only recently taken place, and that a number of them even related to the same products as those in the present case, so that it was possible to show the content in alloying elements of them all, and especially the latter.
Secondly, the very fact that, according to the applicant, there were no distinct markets for alloy scrap and ordinary scrap would rather prove that, since the two types of ferrous scrap were the same from an economic point of view, it had never been felt necessary to analyse their content so that the lack of any indication, even a posteriori, of the content in alloying ele­ ments of the disputed ferrous scrap arose essentially from this circumstance.
Finally, from the technical point of view, the claim that the applicant purchased the alloy scrap in order to avoid the equaliza­ tion scheme presupposes that, for the reasons set forth above, it would have had to arrange an analysis of that ferrous scrap
to be able to obtain s ch an exemption. That analysis was all the more indispens­ able as it was necessary to know the per­ centage of other alloying metals in the ferrous scrap both in order to calculate the level of the production cost and to select the technical methods for preventing the pre­ sence of other metals from having detri­ mental effects on the quality of the steel. For these reasons, if the applicant has produced no analysis, it is because the ferrous scrap in dispute was ordinary scrap, or else contained a minimum percentage, technically and economically insignificant, of other metals.
The defendant finally points out that in any event, according to Resolution No 17 of the Fund, the criteria for classifying ferrous scrap as alloy scrap were three in number:
- The ferrous scrap must have been pur­ chased by an undertaking producing alloy steels;
- The analysis of the ferrous scrap must prove the existence of a specified per­ centage of other elements;
- The invoices must show the increases in price resulting from the presence of other metals.

79
