GERMANY v HIGH AUTHORITY

effect to actions under Article 88, for such a derogation from the general principle of Article 39 cannot be presumed from the silence of the text.

Moreover, the particular scope of Article 88 runs counter to the proposition that an action under the second paragraph of that article can have suspensory effect. Since the decision taken by the High Authority under the first paragraph of that article was declaratory in nature, to accept that Application 19/58 has such effect would mean suspending not the execution of the said decision, but the binding effect either of the relevant provisions of the Treaty or of previous decisions of the High Authority, execution of which is concerned in the present case.

3. During its oral arguments, the applicant alleged that, generally, decisions creat­ ing rights only produce their full effects after expiry of the period during which an appeal may be brought against them or after judgment has been given in pro­ ceedings brought in respect of them, and that therefore the suspensory effect of Application 19/58 must be presumed automatically.

This argument, which is valid as regards certain areas of private law, cannot be accepted as regards administrative matters, where the rule is that decisions be­ come effective either at the time when they are adopted, or on the date of their notification or publication.

Article 14 of the Treaty provides that decisions of the High Authority shall be binding in their entirety, and under Article 39 of the Treaty and Article 33 of the Statute actions brought before the Court do not have suspensory effect except where the Court, or the President thereof, orders otherwise. Since the applicant has not submitted a request that execution of the said decisions be suspended, the latter have remained in force whatever the nature and effect of Application 19/58.

4. The applicant also alleges that there is no legal basis for the contested decision because the decisions of 12 February 1958 are not valid. The applicant is thus rais­ ing against that decision the submissions already directed against the decisions of 12 February 1958 in application 19/58, taking the view that Article 88 gives Mem­ ber States a special right of action, which is distinct from the right given by Article 33 and which entitles then to institute proceedings in which the Court has unli­ mited jurisdiction and which allows it to examine the legality of the basic deci­ sions.

This line of reasoning cannot be accepted.

It cannot be argued that the States have a right to contest, as a matter for the un­ limited jurisdiction of the Court, not only decisions adopted by the High Author­ ity pursuant to Article 88, but also decisions adopted by it in the exercise of the general powers conferred on it by the Treaty.

59
