MODENA v HIGH AUTHORITY


of Article 60 of the Treaty, the defendant points out that the alignment must be carried out on a specific price list and not on price lists of 'competi_tors', much less on the prices which they charge. On the other hand, the phrase 'enabling the quotation to be aligned' used in the Treaty proves that alignment on the price list of a competitor cannot be effected after a contract of sale has been concluded in order to justify a reduction ex post facto. It is the quotation which can be aligned, not the price stipulated in a contract which has already been concluded.
Moreover, in order to obtain a correct alignment it is not sufficient to compare two prices. It is necessary to compare two proposals for entering into a contract; on the one hand, a concrete quotation given to a buyer by a particular seller and, on the other, an abstract quotation which can be taken from the price list of another seller. Both quotations include not only the price, but also the'conditions of sale' and these must necessarily be known in advance in order that they may be applied in the case in point. Thus, parity of basic prices is not sufficient to ensure equality of treatment if the conditions of sale are different.
Following this line of thought the defendant points out-and this applies equally to the documents produced by the applicant in connexion with the other infringements-that the invoices sub­ mitted to the Court by the applicant reveal a different point of parity from that laid down by the price list on which it purports to have been aligned. This implies that the buyer paid different transport charges from those shown in the competitor's price list. There are still further discrepancies and inaccuracies in the documents produced by the applicant. .In the course of the proceedings, the defendant submitted to the Court detailed calculations of a correct alignment on the 'Cravetto' price list which contradicts the figures supplied by Modena.

According to the High Authority there is therefore on any view of the matter no proper alignment.
Finally, the defendant contends that the arguments which the applicant draws from the concept of alignment amount to an admission and contradict its first submission, since it thereby acknowledges that it has charged prices which did not comply with its price list. Reductions _which constitute a gift made by a shareholder in his own name to a customer cannot have been granted by way of an alignment.

4. The applicant points out ad a6undan­ tiam that the allegation of concealment made against it cannot be sustained as it cannot be accused of any irregularity in its book-keeping.
The fact that no distinction was drawn in its accounts between the part of the price paid by Sidercomit and that paid by another person on its behalf cannot be regarded as concealment, since no such distinction is required by any standards prescribed by law or by any rule of accounting technique or practice. Furthermore, there is no rule of Com­ munity law which specifies aggravating circumstances such as those quoted by the High Authority
The applicant is not guilty of any infringement of Article 47of the Treaty. It did not knowingly furnish any false information and accounting documents are not 'information' furnished to an investigator, the only case referred to in Article 47. In the present case there is no falsification of documents but at most something 'unspecified', which is quite different. Thus it has never acted with an animus dissimulandi and no charge of concealment may be made against it.
Furthermore, the High Authority did not refer to Article 47 in the contested Decision and cannot invoke it a posteriori in support of the Decision.
The defendant maintains that there is concealment  by reason  of  the very
295
