GEITLING v HIGH AUTHORITY


of figures in the reasons for the said deci­ sion, instead of contenting itself with giving reasons of a general order. Similarly, in or­ der to show that the authorized rules do not provide for restrictions which are more se­ vere than is justified by their purpose, the High Authority ought to have justified the correctness of its action on the basis of numerical data which alone make it possi­ ble accurately to calculate the effects of the new rules and to explain why the quantita­ tive criteria chosen by the High Authority, (20000 metric tons and 6000 metric tons) must be considered as fair and why it was impossible to set still lower levels.

The applicant also denies that, as is claimed in the preamble to the contested decision, it is only traders distributing at least 20000 metric tons who can successfully hold a large range of different kinds of fuel. Final­ ly, the applicant stresses that the only num­ erical fact appearing in the preamble con­ cerns the limit of 6000 metric tons. It den­ ies, however, that the said amount was re­ quired in all the sales areas because, on the contrary, the factual situation and the quan­ titative criteria applied in the various sales areas had always been unequal.

The defendant objects that it cannot include in its decision detailed predictions as to the effects of a set of rules because to do so could render its work excessively cumber­ some and would, moreover, be impossible in most cases, as in the present case. Fur­ thermore, the necessity to give reasons of a general nature for a decision, having regard to the totally divergent interests of the var­ ious parties concerned, obliged the High Authority to limit itself to stating reasons of a general order. In the case at issue, it had to explain to the joint selling agencies why it considered it necessary to reduce the quantitative criteria. In any event, accord­ ing to the defendant, the reasons for the contested decision are sufficient for review by the Court to be possible, and the discus­ sion as to the quantitative effects can be re­ served to the proceedings before the Court.

The defendant states, furthermore, that it has already indicated in its preamble the reasons why the maintenance of the quan-

titative criteria established by Decision No 36/59 is liable to contribute to a significant improvement in distribution (cf. Part II, 6th recital). It has also explained why those cri­ teria are not too restrictive. It has in fact stated the reasons that determined the choice of the chosen criteria: the necessity for the sales of coal of a first-hand trader reaching a given quantity; the line to be drawn between first-hand wholesalers com­ pared with trade at lower levels; the finding that before the establishment of the com­ mon market a limit of6000 metric tons was applied in extensive areas of German terri­ tory (cf. Part II, 10th, 11th and 12th reci­ tals).
2. The applicant replies that the statement of the reasons for the contested decision discloses the considerations and the conclu­ sions of the High Authority, but not the facts on which it based its decision. Nor, in omitting to put figures on the effects of the rules and on the probable effects of the new rules, does the contested decision permit the applicant to adduce pertinent reasons in support of the other submissions that it might have an interest in submitting.

Starting from these premises, the applicant argues that:

(a) The High Authority has accepted the proposition that the previous decisions were based on an erroneous assessment of the facts. It is not the facts which have changed but their assessment. In reality the High Authority has recog­ nized retrospectively that the old crite­ ria were incompatible with the Treaty.
(b) 	Without numerical data, it is not possi­ ble to determine whether the new as­ sessment is illegal. Numerical data would have meant that any interested party could have checked them. A gen­ eral statement of reasons must not be confused with the publication of mere general considerations. It was not enough to say that the old criteria had effects that were too restrictive; the nature and the extent of those restric­ tions should also have been stated.
(c) It should also have been proved that the

433
