JUDGMENT OF 17. 7. 1959 -CASE 23/58


the Board of the OCCF on the measures referred to in Articles _3 to 11 (1) of the said decision. In the present case, the point at issue is the definition of the concept of an undertaking. And it is Article 2 of the deci­ sion which defines that concept as meaning 'an undertaking referred to in Article 80 of the Treaty'. Furthermore, that definition does not constitute 'a measure'.
The applicants add that, according to Arti­ cle 53 (1) (b), with regard to the making of financial arrangements, the High Authority is competent to act only after obtaining the unanimous assent of the Council of Minis­


not only contained in Article 2 but also in Article 3, which determines the calculation of the contribution.
Second submission: procedural defects
The applicants advance the argument that the letter complained of had to be approved by a unanimous resolution by the Council of Ministers. The letter amends Decision No 2/57 by substituting for the criterion of 'an undertaking referred to in Article 80 of the Treaty' that of 'an undertaking bearing the same company name' or of 'a legal person'. Furthermore, the letter does not state the

ters. The defendar,t takes the view that the,	reasons on which it is based, contrary to the

submission based on lack of competence cannot be admitted (see supra: 'Admis­ sibility') and therefore replies to the argu­ ments put forward by the applicants in support of the submission only in the alternative.
It asserts that the contested letter cannot be considered as amending its previous Deci­ sions Nos 22/54, 14/55 and 2/57 and that therefore there was no occasion for the Council of Ministers to intervene. On the re­ quest of the OCCF, the High Authority con­ firmed and clarified the interpretation of the concept of 'own resources' which the OCCF had hitherto been following. An interpreta­ tion in accordance with the habitual mean­ ing of the word and the material context is not an amendment.
The exemptions granted in the contested letter also do not constitute an amendment of the previous decisions. Indeed, it is for any higher administrative authority to determine the limits of a decision by apply­ ing objectively defined and universally valid criteria. Unity of location is a criterion which fulfils these conditions.
As to the complaint that Articie 15 of Deci­ sion No 2/57 does not refer to Article 2 of the same decision and that consequently the High Authority cannot make a pronounce­ ment upon the concept of an undertaking referred to in Article 2, this contains a dou­ ble error. First, the point at issue here is not the interpretation of the concept of 'an un­ dertaking' but that of 'own resources' and, secondly, the concept of an undertaking is
120

provisions of the first paragraph of Article 1S of the Treaty.
The defendant takes the view that the sub­ mission based on infringement of an essen­ tial procedural requirement cannot be admitted (see supra: 'Admissibility') and replies to the arguments in support of this submission only in the alternative.
The defendant asserts that the complaint of inadequacy of the reasons stated is without foundation. The third paragraph of the letter complained of sets out the reasons on which t.,he letter is based, which are founded on the concept of ownership and on logical and literal interpretation. A more detailed statement of reasons would have been re­ quired only if the letter had diverged from the normal meaning of words. According to the principles of law, the reasons given are sufficient.
Third submission: infringement of the Treaty or of rules of law relating to its application
The applicants state that the annexes to the Treaty, the decisions of the High Authority and the general principles of law, universal­ ly accepted in the Member States are rules of law relating to the application of the Treaty.
1. The previous decisions (Nos 22/54, 14/5S and 2/57) allow only those undertak­ ings which buy scrap on the market to benefit from equalization. It is obvious that when own resources are recovered in other factories of the undertaking, they are entered into the accounts only with internal
