JUDGMENT OF 15. 7. 1963-CASE 34/62


By a letter dated 24 February 1962 the applicant, having stated its reasons for objecting to the refusal of this request, again asked for:
- 	the partial suspension of dut:es appli­ cable to oranges under tariff headings ex 08.02 A I and 08.02 A II and a reduction of the rate of duty to 10% for the year 1962;
- 	alternatively, a tariff quota of 580 000 metric tons, subject to a customs duty of 10% for the year 1962.
In this letter the applicant adds that it is prepared to extend further the prin­ ciple of Community preference for oranges, although the use of this pre­ ference is already adequate.
By letters of 5 and 10 May 1962, the Commission sent the applicant the ob­ servations of the French and Italian Governments. The applicant replied to these observations by a letter of 8 June 1962. By Decision of 30 July 1962, notified to the applicant by letter of 22 August 1962, the Commission refused this new request.
It is this Decision which is the subject matter of this application lodged at the
·Registry on 20 October 1962.

II-Conclusions of the parties
The applicant claims that the Court should:
annul the Decision of the Commis­ sion III/COM (02) 219 def. of the EEC of 30 July 1962;
- order the defendant to pay the costs. The defendant contends that the Court should:
dismiss the application and order the applicant to pay the costs.

Ill-Submissions and argu- ments of the parties
Thesubmissions and arguments of the parties may be summarized as fol­ lows:
134


The applicant puts forward three sub­ missions : infringement of an essential procedural requirement, infringement of the Treaty and misuse of powers.

A - Infringement of an essential pro- cedural requirement
The arguments put forward by the applicant may be summarized as fol­ lows:
- The Commission must state the reasons on which its decisions are based in accordance with Article 190 of the EEC Treaty. The statement of reasons must not be vague and limited to a repetition of the provisions of the Treaty, because otherwise judicial super­ vision of the legality of the measure to which it refers would be impossible.
- The defendant's argument that the statement of the reasons on which Com­ munity decis:ons are based, in particu­ lar in the case of discretionary decisions, can pass in silence over facts which are of common knowledge, and all the rele­ vant circumstances known to the parties concerned, overlooks the fact that in the world of economic realities the con­ cepts of 'experience' and 'facts of com­ mon knowledge' are very controversial as this case has clearly shown.
- The contested Decision quotes in its preamble various articles of the Treaty, and then gives a general statement of the economic reasons which led the Commission to refuse the applicant's request without indicating the facts found by the Commission in the course of investigating the situation and with­ out establishing the connection which should exist between its statement and the articles quoted.
- The contested Decision does not state whether the proviso, to which the grant of a tariff quota under Article 25 (3) of the Treaty is subject, was found 1:0 have been complied with in this case.
- The contested Decision confines itself to mentioning some of the objectives set out in Articles 29 and 39 of the Treaty
