MODENA v HIGH AUTHORITY


general Decision have been made, the applicant undertakings cannot suffer any damage. It refers to the arguments already put forward and deduces from them that the submissions put forward by the applicants are not valid and moreover goes on to point out that these submissions refer to the conduct of the High Authority prior to the adoption of Decision No 7/63 and that they are not therefore relevant to the examination of the 'subject matter of the dispute'.
IV -  Procedure
The procedure followed the normal

course.
The applications in Cases 55, 56, 57, 58 and 59/63 were lodged on 22 May 1963 and applications in Cases 61, 62 and 63/63 on 24 May 1963.
By an order of 18 February 1964 the Court ordered that all the above Cases be joined for the purposes of the written and oral procedures and of the judg­ ment.
On 5 March 1964 the High Authority appointed its Legal Adviser ltalo Fel­ chini, as its Agent in the absence of its previous Agent Giulio Felchini.




Grounds of judgment

A-The application for annulment

1. Decision No 7/63

Admissibility

(a) The defendant submits that Decision No 7/63 is a general decision and can therefore only be contested by the applicants if they can make out a primafacie case of misuse of powers affecting them.

The applicants, on the other hand, argue that Decision No 7/63 is a collec· tion of individual decisions concerning undertakings subject to the financial arrangements for the equalization offerrous scrap and that it can, therefore, be contested by each of the undertakings upon all the grounds laid down by the first paragraph of Article 33 of the ECSC Treaty.

In support of this argument the applicants submit that the contested Decision is directed to a specific category of addressees, that is, undertakings which utilize ferrous scrap, and that, instead of containing abstract rules for factual situations which may arise in the future, it is solely intended to regulate facts and situations which have arisen in the past, namely the purchase of scrap, by a given number of undertakings.

In order to ascertain whether a decision of the High Authority is general or
227
