JUDGMENT OF 1.7.1964	CASE 78/63


It was thus not • legally necessary to consult the staff. It was a mere gesture of courtesy, which makes the time when it occurred quite unimportant.
Moreover a rule relating to a transitional provision is not by its nature a perman­ ent general provision for giving effect to the Staff Regulations.
2. 	Infringement of Article 5 (4) of the Staff Regulations:
Failure to define the duties and powers attaching to posts

The applicant claims that the contested decision is null and void because the Commission failed to define beforehand, after consulting the Staff Regulations Committee and the Staff Committee, the duties and powers attaching to each post, provided for in the last sentence of Article 5 of the Staff Regulations. This means that the reports of the applicant's immediate superiors, the opinion of the Establishment Board and the decision of the Commission resulting from it are void, as it is impossible to judge a servant's suitability for a post the duties attaching to which have not been legally defined.
The defendant replies that the question in this case was to consider whether the applicant in fact fulfilled the conditions for retention in the service of the Commission, taking account of his previous conduct in a given post. The applicant confuses the implementation of the Staff Regulations with the putting into effect of transitional provisions intended to facilitate this implementa­ tion.
3. 	Violation of the audi alteram partem principle and of general principles of law

The applicant contests the integration procedure and the decision to terminate his contract on the grounds that the audi alteram partem principle and the general principles of law were not observed by
372

the Establishment Board which, accord­ ing to him, is in fact an administrative tribunal.
In any case the audi alteram partem principle is a general rule binding the administration in all matters. In the present case this principle was not observed.
The applicant puts forward a series of facts which, according to him, establish the irregularity of the procedure fol­ lowed by the Establishment Board, particularly:
the report of his immediate superior comes from an official who has feelings of animosity towards him;
- the appraisals which appear in the report are subjective and impossible to review;
- it has not been established that the Board was aware of the means by which the report was made;
the witnesses were not heard in his presence and he was not notified of the minutes of their examination;
- he was not given the last word;
- 	the Board's file does not contain the minutes and notes which he filed in his defence;
the presence of a third party renders the Board's deliberations null and void;
he was not allowed the assistance of a colleague or of a legal adviser.
The defendant replies that the applicant misunderstands the Establishment Board's nature, which is administrative. In this connexion it refers to the opinion of the Advocate-General in the Leroy case Ooined Cases 35/62 and 16/63).
The Board followed the proper pro­ cedure: the applicant was heard; he submitted his comments in writing and
. verbally on the criticisms levelled against him.
With regard to the particular complaints raised by the applicant, the defendant contends that:
he has not established the animosity of his immediate superior, but only his own lack of deference in leaving
