ACIERIES DU TEMPLE v HIGH AUTHORITY


III-Submissions and arguments of the parties
Admissibility
The defendant does not objeot mat me a.pplica,tion is inadmissible.
Substance of the case
The application is directed against the decision of the High Authority of 22 July 1964 and, by rais:ing the objection of illegality, also against the following general decisions :
- No 21/58 (Official Journail. No 23, 1958);
- No 19/60 (Official Journal Nos 54 and 62, 1960);
- No 20/60 (Official Journail Noo 54 and 62, 1960);
- No 7/61 (Official Journal No 30, 1961);
- No 7/63 (Official Journal No 54, 1963).
The submissions and arguments of the palities may be summarized as follows:
A - Lack of competence, infringement of essential procedural require­ ments, infringement of the Treacy
The applicant first of all reminds the Court ithait according to Article 53 (b) of me Treaity me High Authorilty may, with the unanimous assent of the Coun­ cil, make any such financial arrange­ ments as are mentioned in Article 53 (a).
Likewise, according to the case-law of the Cou11t (Joined Cases 32 and 33/58), any amendment ,to Decision No 2/57 (whioh amended and prolonged the de­ cisions se'llting up the financial arrange­ ments for the equalization of ferrous scrap) requires it.he unanimous assent of the Council.
It is then argued that the obligation ro obtain <this assent also applies to the decisions concerning rules governing interest, such as the decisions called in question by the present applicaition. It is said ithat this is a matter of principle which fol!ows from Article 53 of lllhe

Treaty and from the case-llllw of the Court, especially .the judgment in Joined
c.ases 4 and 13/59.
This rule was not observed upon the ad01ptiion of any of ilie decisions con­ tested by :the present ap.plication. Only Decision No 16/58, which empowered the High Authority to lay down tlie rules for ·the settlemenrt of iDJterest on overdue ipaymenrts, had ,previously re­ ceived the Council's assent. However this decision was only of limited effoot sinte ,it only aipplied for the period from 1 August to 31 Octdber 1958.
It is argued ,that the asseDlt of ithe Coun­ cil was particularly necessary in ithe present case ,because ,the a:bovementloned decisions altered the basic struoture of the equalization scheme, and they thus in faot repealed ithe earlier decisions colllOOl'Ding it.
In faot tlllis scheme was substantially mitered because:
- The basis of assessment to ithe equail­ ization levy, instead of being Slimpliy the bought ferrous scraip itself, also covers the serviicing of interest as well as interesit on overdue paymeDlts,
,these henceforth being included, under .the new rules, iin the main contriibuiti.on;
- sUlbjeotive, empirical and contingent clements suoh as the greater or les­ ser delay wi,th which ,the contributor undertakings ,pay their. oonmbucions, the diligence shown iby !the High AUJthority and ithe contriJbutors, etc., became aittaohed to the equalization scheme, whereas in the SNUPAT case ,the Court insisted iliait ,the levy was to be caiculated on an objeonive 1basis.
The defendant objects that ithe only complaint which could in theory be advanced in this •case is ,thatt of an in­ fringement of an essenrtial ,procedural reqllliremeillt. On ,the one hand the COIID­ plaint that the T,reaty has been infringed is, in this case, included in .the com­
plaint that ,there has been an infringe­
ment of an essential procedural require-

763
