JUDGMENT OF 19. 7. 1955 - CASE 1/55


3. The arguments which the parties put forward in support of their claims during the procedure before the Court may be summarized as follows:

1. On the regularity of the decision not to renew

The applicant claims that he entered the service of the Common Assembly only be­ cause the latter strongly urged him to do so. The defendant replies that the appli­ cant entered the service of Assembly at his own request and after having personally submitted an application.
According to the applicant, his engage­ ment, although temporary, rendered him eligible for a stable post. As against this ar­ gument, the defendant states that it does not appear either from the circumstances of his engagement or from the individual clauses of his contract that the applicant was eligible for such treatment, since he did not receive any promise, whether oral or in writing, that his contract would be renewed.
According to the applicant, the decision not to renew was taken at a time when it was impossible to ascertain whether the duties in question were or were not to be continued in 1955. The applicant men­ tions a judgment of the French Conseil d'Etat which annulled a decision not to re­ new because it was adopted too long in ad­ vance of the end of the contract. The de­ fendant states that the first few months had quickly shown the defects of the organiza­ tion.
The applicant also argues that the aboli­ tion of his post was a matter for the Com­ mittee of Presidents provided for under Article 78 of the Treaty and not for the Bu­ reau. According to the defendant, the ap­ plication of Article 78 of the Treaty has been provisionally suspended by the last paragraph of Article 7 of the Convention on the Transitional Provisions. The de­ fendant also argues that the applicant is confusing the power to organize depart­ ments, which belongs to the Assembly, and the power to fix the number of ser­ vants, which isexercised by the Committee of Presidents.


Furthermore, the applicant is of the opin­ ion that since the post was not mentioned in the contract, the abolition of that post cannot result in the applicant's dismissal. The measure is vitiated by misuse of pow­ ers, because the abolition of the post was only a pretext.
According to the defendant, the applicant has not proved that the abolition took place for the purpose suggested. Therefore there cannot be any question of misuse of powers.
Finally, the applicant argues that the deci­ sion not to renew appears to be a disguised penalty. The defendant replies that the ap­ plicant is confusing the legal concepts of a penalty and the genuine abolition of a post. In its statement of defence, the defendant puts forward for the first time the inadequ­ acy of the applicant in the service. The ap­ plicant points out that the observations concerning his professional competence are based on his activity subsequent to the decision to dismiss him.

2. On the grant for ·which Article 15 of the contract makes pr01•ision

The applicant argues that by letter of3 No­ vember 1954 the Bureau of the Common Assembly granted him an additional pay­ ment of four-twelfths of his annual remun­ eration, and that the said grant was with­ drawn because he persisted in making an application to the Court. He has never pro­ tested against that grant. The defendant argues that the offer, made ex gratia, was never accepted by the applicant, who pre­ ferred to take legal action rather than ac­ cept that benefit.
3. On the so-called car allowance
According to the applicant, the Internal Staff Rules of 12 January 1953 annexed to his contract of employment gave him the right to a quarterly car allowance. Pay­ ment of that allowance was unlawfully sus­ pended on 15 July 1953. The defendant points out that under the Provisional Staff Rules a special decision is necessary in or­ der to obtain the allowance. No such mea­ sure was adopted in respect of the appli­ cant.


154
