JUDGMENT OF 9. 12. 1965 - JOINED CASES 29, 31, 36, 39-47, 50 and 51/63


di uted scrap from ship-breakers' yards had been, for them, less expensive ,than imported ferrous scrap. Since they sus­ tained no damage they later discon­ tinued ,their actions.
The defendant replies that the method chosen by the applicants in their attempt to prove damage is subjeotlive, biased and dncomplete. Moreover, the appli­ cants' calculations are invalidated by mistakes and omissions. The defendant says that it could not correct all the calculations of all the applicants so as to iprove beyond any doubt that in none of the cases had any damage been suffered sdnce :it only has some of the necessary documents.
It states that damage has been proved in none of the cases. It considers that all the ap:plicants obtaaned their shdip­ yard scrap ait 'free ,works' prices equal to or less than the average prices of ferrous scrap which they bought as a general rule.
The defendant fust of all puts forward a general argument covering a11 the cases. It then seemed to iit tliat it was necessary to summarize separately the objections wihich it raised to the cal­ culations of each indivtidual applicant, since each apiphlcant must individually prove the damage sustained by it.
(a) General criticism of the appli- cants' evidence
1. Choice of the port of importation­ At the outse:t, the defendant observes that in their :reply aU the applicants­ with the exception of the applicant in Case No 50/63, Forges d'Hennebont­ endeavour to ,prove the damage caused to :them on the basis of ,ports otlher than those propooed to them by ,the Union de Consommateurs de Ferrailles de France (,the French Association of Ferrous Scrap Consumers) (UOFF) when the contracts were concluded, or indeed other than ,those which they
mentioned m their applica,tiions.
In Schedules 1 and 22A ,to the reply, the applicants choose a 'main ,port of

926


importation'. The defendanrt disputes that the damage can be ascertained solely on the basis of the main port, which is almost always t:he one witli the lowest costs. Lt alleges that in claiming to establish actual damage the applicants must not make a compardson with the most ex.pensive ti:mported ferrous scrap received at 1lhat ,time; at the very least, they should take aocolllilt of the average of ,the costs relatlng to their imports, and thus on the basis of all ,the ports ,through which :they received imported ferrous scrap. The defendant also states that the applicants of.ten ohoose a ,port through which they have reccived no scrap for the year in ,the course of which ,they allege damage as regards sh1pyard scrap (see
Schedules  17,  22A  and  24 w  the
reply).
F,inally, in Schedules 8, 13, 26, 34, 41 and 49 ito .the rejoinder, ,the defendant sets out a series of errors or omissions which it has found in Schedules 1 to 21A ,to the reply, which are 1lhe tables showing, for each applicant, the :ton­ nages of impo11ted ferrous scrap from 1954 to 1958 and ,the ports used.
2. Calculation of the costs of unloading in the ports of importation-The tables which make up Schedules 23 to 36 to the reply, as well as Schedule 64A, gJve :the details of the sitevedoroge costs etc., together wlith ,tJhe total cost per metric ton. Schedule 37 to ,the reply forms the yearly summary of the ton­ nages of imported ferrous scrap un­ loaded in each of the ports. Schedules
38 and 39 to the reply are the sum­ maries by ,port and by year of the arJ,thmetical average of ,the net costs pe:r metric ton, in dollars (Schedule 38) and in old French francs (Schedule 39).
The defendaillt: srates ,that Schedule 45 to 64A to the reply whlch, according to ,the applicants, are 'the statements of the Grouipement d'Imiportauion de Pro­ dwts Siderurgiques (GIPS) (Iron and Steel Products  Import  Association)
