MULLER v COUNCIL


2. The defendants argue furthermore that the present applicanion is inadmiss­ ible because it was made out of time. In support of this they argue in par­ ticular that the applicant is really bring­ ing his application against the decisions of 28 March and 21 June 1963, by which he was classified in Grade Bl, St 1, as from 1 January 1962. So the alleged damage has existed since 21 June 1963.
Even if it be admitted that the appli­ cant could not ascertain the damage caused him by the said decision before the definitions of the duties and powers attaching to each basic post adopted by the Councils on 7 October 1963 was communicated to the staff, the present application is still out of time as these definitions were communicated to the staff on 15 October 1963-. Therefore the period of three months laid down in Article 91 of the Staff Regulations began to run from this date at the latest.
Furthermore it is a mistake to say that any uncertainty concerning the grading of the duties of the applicant was only completely cleared up after the Secre­ tary General's letter of 2 July 1964. This uncertainty never existed, since the applicant could only be promoted to Grade Bl if his duties corresponded to that grade.
The applicant's main points in reply are as follows :
-The decision of 28 March 1963 was taken on the basis of ATticle 45 of the Staff Regulations, taking into ac­ count Article 108. Thus the appli­ cant was promoted to Grade Bl as from 1 October 1962. The step which was allocated to him (Step 1) was fixed on the basis of Article 46 of the Staff Regulations.
- By reason of this promotion the applicant was classified in a higher career bracket of Category B as from 1 October 1962. Since he earned out the same  duties  at least  from  1

January 1962, he concluded that he could ask to be classified in Grade Bl as from that date. The defiruitions of the duties and powers attaching to each basic post had not yet been adopted by the Councils, and the settling of his position under the Staff Regulations was thus post­ poned sine die. He was simply doing his best to obtain the most favour­ aJble classification which he could claim in the shortest possible itkne, and it was for this purpost: that he made his request of 19 April 1963.
Pursuant to this request the effective date of the aibovementioned classifica­ tion was carried back to 1 January 1962, by a decision of 21 June 1963. This was preceded by a letter of 20 June 1963 from the Secretary-General according to which the said decisiion was not considered by the appointing authority as constituting a measoce in response to a possible request on_ the part of the applicant for his administra­ tive posiition to be regularized in accord­ ance with Annex I to the Staff Regula­ tions, but rai!:her as	promotion with maximum retroactive effect. Therefore the deci6ion could not adversely affect the applicant. In the first place, it did not decide the question of the appli­ cant's classification. Secondly, the appH­ cant could not attack the decis,ion with a view to showing that his duties corre­ sponded to a particular career bracket and thus to claiming all his seniority in this grade for the simple reason that he was not in a position to show cause to a sufficient extent until the definitions of the duties and powers attaching to each basic post were adopted.
The administration's memorandum com­ municated to the applicant on 26 June 1963 in fact announced .the adoptlion of a further decision on 'the new career bracket •to which the applicant was assigned, in accocdance with the table of basiic .posts and corresponding career brackets'. This decision, which brought the integration procedure to a close,

389
