CONSTEN AND GRUNDIG v COMMISSION


divisions in trade between Member States might be such as to frustrate the most fundamental objectives of the Community.
9. 	The finding of an infringement of Article 85(1) must be limited only to those parts of a contract which con­ stitute the infringement as long as they are severable from the rest of the agreement.
10. 	Articles 36, 222 and 234 of the EEC Treaty do not exclude any influence whatever of Community law on the exercise of national industrial property rights.
The Community rules on competition do not allow the improper use of rights under national trade-mark law in order to frustrate the Community's law on cartels.
11. 	When a sole distributorship contract is challenged before it, the Commission is not obliged automatically to require other concessionnaires who are not parties to that agreement to take part in the proceedings.
12. 	The Commission may not confine it­ self to requiring from undertakings proof of the fulfilment of the require­ ments for the grant of the exemption from the prohibition in Article 85 (3) of the EEC Treaty, but must play its part, using the means available to it, in ascertaining the relevant facts and circumstances.
Judicial review of complex economic evaluations by the Commission con-

ceming exemption from the prohibi­ tion on cartels must take account of their nature by confining itself to an examination of the relevance of the facts and the legal consequences which the Commission deduces there from. This review must in the first place be carried out in respect of the reasons given for the decisions which must set out the facts and considerations on which the said evaluations are based.
13. 	The improvement in the production and distribution of goods, which is required for the grant of exemption cannot be id ntified with all the advantages which the parties to the agreement obtain from it in their production or distribu­ tion activities, since the content of the concept of improvement is not required to depend upon the special features of the contractual relationships in ques­ tion. This improvement must in particu­ lar show appreciable objective advant­ ages of such a character as to compen­ sate for the disadvantages which they cause in the field of competition.
In its evaluation of the relative impor­ tance of the various factors submitted for its consideration, the Commission must judge their effectiveness by refer­ ence to an objectively ascertainable im­ provement in the production and distribution of the goods and decide whether the resulting benefit suffices to support the conclusion that the conse­ quent restrictions upon competition are indispensable.


In Joined Cases 56 and 58/64

56/64 - ETABLISSEMENTS CONSTEN SARL, having its registered office at Courbevoie (Seine), represented •by J. Lassier, advocate at the Cour d'Appel, Paris, with an address for service in Luxembourg at the Chambers of J. Welter, avocat-avoue, 6 rue Willy-Goergen,
58/64 - GRUNDIG-VERKAUFS-GMBH, having its registered office at Furth (Bavar­ ia), represented by its Managing Director, Max Grundig, assisted by H. Hellmann and K. Pfeiffer, of the Cologne Bar, with an address for service in Luxembourg at the Chambers of A. Neyens, avocat-avoue, 9 rue des Glacis,

applicants,

301
