JUDGMENT OF 11. 3. 1965 - CASE 33/64


2. Observations of the Government of the French Republic

The French Government adopts a posi­ tion only on ,the first question.
It deduces from ,the wording of Article
52 that the rights provided for in the first paragraph come into existence as from the entry into force of Regulation No 3 but cannot be exercised until the time when the bilateral agreement pro­ vided for in the second paragraph of the provision in question has come into force between the States concerned.
3. Observations of the Commission
A -	As to the first question

(a) As a preliminary matter, the Com­ mission points out:
-that in Regulation No 3 Article 51 and Article 52 are the only examples of new rules of law made by the Community legislature which rely for their application on classical bilateral conventions to be concluded in the future;
- 	that it is appropriate to recall that the said Regulation was first drafted as a classical international convention and that the provision in dispute was taken without alteration from the original draft;
- 	that the working documents are such that it is not possible to ascertain with precision the intention of the authors of the said provision; that it appears nevertheless that the last sentence of the provision is due only to a desire for caution; the drafts­ men, not being experts in civil law, feared that ,the rules of Article 52 were not sufficient in themselves;
- .that, however, it is now appropriate to consider whether this anxiety is justified.
(b) In favour of the immediate applic­ ability of Article 52, ,the following arguments may be put forward:

100
1. 
In the absence of express provision for immediate applicabili-ty, such as exists for other provisions, this Article came into force together with the whole of Regulation No 3. It would thus ,be difficult to accept that the authors of the Regulation wanted to delay the corning into force of the said Article until the various successive dates on which the bilateral agreements were made. On examining the solutions adopted by the rules of the Member States for putting laws into effect, the Commission considers that the reference to measures taken in implementation could not lead to the suspension of the enforcement of Article 52 unless its putting into operation was impossible until the measures taken in implementa­ tion had been promulgated.
Such is not the case, the rule in ques­ tion being sufficiently clear and com­ plete not to require measures to be taken in implementation of it. This is corroborated by the bilateral agreemenrts which have been concluded between certain Member States since the entry into force of Regulation No 3, and which have added nothing to Article 52;
,the agreement made between Germany and Luxembourg even declared expres­ sly ',that the first and second sentences of Article 52 . . . shall ibe fully applic­ able without the agreement provided for by the third sentence being required.
2. Article 85 of Regulation No 4 of the Council of the EEC (Official Journal of 16 December 1958, pp. 597 et seq.), at least in the German version ('Tref­ fenddie zustandigen Behorden von Mitgliedstaaten zweiseitige Vereinbar­ ungen zur Anwendung der Artikel 51 und 52 der Verordnung, so .. .'), sug­ gests that in the minds of the authors bilateral agreements are not indispens­ able
3. The precautions taken by the authors of Article 52 might be explained by the fact that this provision was drafted at the same time as Article 51 which does not suffice by itself.
