JUDGMENT OF 8. 7. 1965 -  CASE 68/63


he always considered himself to be "head of the group" and insisted on being allocated the apparatus in question'.
C - .Submission based on misuse of powers and a:busie of ·procedure
To a large extent the arguments of the paDties under this heading overlap those concerning the second submission (cf. under B albove).
Moreover, the applicant complains in partiicular that he was the victim of the 'unflagging' animosity of the Director­ General of Research. This animosity explains the failure to keep the promise made to the applicant by Mr Ritter during the negotiations for his appoint­ ment to entrust him with research work in accordance with his experience. This animosity spread to the other Heads of Department.
In addition, the applicant criticizes the
 procedure followed by the defendant following his complaint of 30 August 1962: the applicant was informed on several occasions that the complaiint was under consideration and that a decisfon would ,be taken towards the middle of November 1962. On 14 March 1963 the applicant was informed that -the Commission of the EAEC would take no decision on his complaint until. a decision was giiven on his integration. On 20 March 1963, however, the appli­ cant was dismissed by the defendant, an irregular procedure in that a reply should have been given independently of the integration decision and before such a decision was taken.
One must therefore conclude -tl1at he was dismissed for reasons outsnde the interests of the department and in parti­ cular to enable the defendant to avoid giving a decision on the complaint in question. Moreover, the a:rb1trary nature of the integration procedure is shown by the faot that Mr Kuhtboersch was inte­ grated although his experiences had been the same as those of the applicant (transfers,  difficulties  with  supociors,

590


etc.) and although the assessment of him in the integration report was even less favourable than that of the applicant. The only difference between the two cases is that Mr Kuhlboersch submitted no formal complaint to the defendant. The	defendant	replies first that the aippilicant was not promised freedom to continue with earlier research work. Powea- to organize the departments rests with the Directorate alone; servants have no right to request to be entrusted with the research work of their cho:ce. The events which occurred during the applicant's period of employment (af. under B (d) above) justify roe opinion of the Establishment Board; thus it is idle to refer to the alleged animosity of the Director for Research.
'The institution has the right to reject a complaint by implication. The present application is made against this implied decision of rejection'. Moreover, the file shows that the applicant agreed that no decis:on should be given on the com­ pdairnt until after the decision •on inte­ gration was made. It is for ,this reason that .the defendant made no objeotlion to the admissibility of the application against the implied rejection of the complaint. Furthermore, since tihe Consolo report was unfavouraible to the applicant, the detendant 'had no reason for not dealing wiro the sUJbject-matter of the complaint'.
2. Application for damages
The applicant states that this applica­ tion is made both as a subsidiary plea ,to
(a) the application for annuhnent and independendy of (b) the ihlegality of the dismissal.
As to (a) Since the applicant has found a new post, beginning on 1 February 1964, restitutio in integrum is no longer possible. On the other hand, if annul­ ment is 'a means of re-esta1blishment', it does not constitute sufficient repara­ tion for the material and non-material damage suffered in particular as a result of the following facts :
