COMMISSION v ITALY


with petrol-engined cars as regards speed and comfort. That argument is based on an outmoded assessment of the characteristics of diesel engines, since modern techniques have overcome the disadvantages referred to by the Commission and have made such engines suitable for high-performance cars.
3. The Italian Government also regards as unfounded the Commission's complaint concerning the alleged protectionist purpose of the value-addd tax rules applied to diesel-engined cars which it infers from the significant fact that no such vehicle of Italian manufacture is subject to the maximum rate of value-added tax applied to luxury products.
In that regard, the Italian Government puts forward the following submissions:
(a) The fact that the higher rate of value-added tax applies only . to an imported model is due to the tendency of domestic manufacturers to adapt more to the fiscal conditions of the internal market than manufacturers in the other Member States, who are more concerned with adapting to the requirements of their own market, on which they intend to sell more of their production.
(b) The raising from 2 000 cc to 2 500 cc of the threshold above which diesel­ engined cars were to be regarded as luxury products has been of greater benefit to imported cars than to those produced in Italy. Before that provision came into force, only one diesel­ engined model manufactured in Italy, which had a cubic capacity of more than 2 000 cc, was subject to the maximum rate of value-added tax applied to luxury motor cars. Of the

cars produced in the other Member States of the Community, most of those equipped with diesel engines had a cubic capacity above 2 000 cc and were therefore subject to the maximum rate of value-added tax.
The increase in the limit thus benefited only one model produced in Italy, whereas all but one of the cars produced in the other Member States of the Community obtained the same advantage. Consequently, if the advantage obtained by Italian products is compared with that obtained at the same time by foreign products, it must be admitted that the liberalizing effect completely overshadows the protec­ tionist effect.
The Italian Government considers that the mere objective finding that the higher rate applies to only one foreign product cannot constitute, in the circumstances of the present case, a valid indication of the existence of discrimination of the kind prohibited by the second paragraph of Article 95 of the Treaty.

V -  Oral procedure
At the hearing on 18 September 1986, the Commission, represented by Mr Berardis, acting as Agent, and the Italian Government, represented by Mr Ferri, Avvocato dello Stato, presented oral argument and replied to questions put to them by the Court.

The Advocate General delivered his Opinion at the sitting on 1 October 1986.

G. C. Rodriguez Iglesias
Judge-Rapporteur








3959
