JUDGMENT OF 8. 7. 1965-CASE 83/63


had not resulted in any disciplinary measure being taken.
The defendant considers that ,the present request is inadmisSl!ble, since nhe statements made by the applicant are clearly irrelevant.
As regards the substance of the appli­ cation, the defendant se'ts out detailed arguments to refute the applicant's allegations. In par:ticw.ar, it considers that the incident of 25 April 1%3 must be seen in the light of the fact that for several months Mr Gueron had been the targelt of violent criticism on the part of ,the applicant. Furthermore, con­ vention requires a s111bordinate to wait for his superior to take the initiative in offering his hand. This being so, the applicant's behaviour might have appeared to ibe provocation.
The  applicant  replies,  as  re,g3['ds
admissibility, that the defendant's allegations are irrelevant, if only because he also puts fonward the submission of misuse of powers.
C - On rthe alleged disorganization of of the Centre
The applicant sets out in detail the facts which, in his opinion, demonstrate the lack of organization at the C-entte and the damage which he suffered as a

result both on ,the scientific level and as regards his classification. H main­ tains in ,particular ·that 'at no time in his career did the Commission provide him. with work or research which would have enabled him to demonstrate his scienti­ fic knowledge and experience'.
The defendant sets out detailed argu­ ments to refute the applicant's allega­ tions.
As regards admissibility, the parties put forward submissions and arguments similar to those set out above under 1 and 2, A and B.

IV-Procedure
By orders of 15 October and 13 November 1964 ,the Fdrst Chamber of the Court decided to order certain facts to 1be proved by the evidence of wit­ nesses and, for .th.is purpose, to hear Mr Hubert, Mr Ritter and Mr Lindner. These witnesses were h d by the Chamber at the hearing on 11 December 1964.
The parties presented oral argument :to the First Chamber of the Court on 11 Felbruary 1965.
The Advocate-General delivered his opinion at the hearing on 17 March 1965.


Gll'owmds of jundgmem11t
I-Admissibility
1. The defendant maintains that, as the subject of this application is the same as that of the applicant's complaint of 16 October 1962 through official channels and as the rejection of that complaint was not contested within the prescribed period, the application is inadmissible.
The present application is based on three issues, namely: the classification of the applicant, the failure to protect him against the alleged animosity of Mr Gueron and the alleged lack of organization at the Ispra Centre.
The abovementioned complaint through official channels, which was in fact formulated before the applicant was established, did not refer to his classification.
632
