VLOEBERGHS v HIGH AUTHORITY


Although it can be accepted that the ac­ cessory follows the principal, the con­ verse cannot be accepted.
The defendant goes on to emphasize that outside the present application Mr Vloeberghs never considered himself as a producer within the meaning of the ECSC Treaty. In fact he sends, pur­ suant to Article 60, to the High Authority the price lists only for his sales of compressed fuels, and not for sales of anthracite such as those in ques­ tion in the present case. Further, Mr Vloeberghs has never made investment declarations to the High Authority in accordance with Article 54 of the Treaty.
(b) Furthermore the applicant based its ac­ tion on its status as a dealer, relying on the right to free movement within the Community for coal from third countries which has been properly cleared through customs in one of the countries of the Community, which shows that the rejection already given to the notice submitted by Vloeberghs un­ der Article 35 is well founded. Ac­ cording to the case-law of the Court in Cases 7/54 and 9/54 on the one hand and 18/57 on the other, undertakings carrying out distribution activities have not the capacity to make an application on the basis of Article 35.
To these arguments the applicant replies that, both in its application for damages and in its application for annulment, it put itself forward 'in its sole and real capacity as an importer of coal from third countries in order to sell it in the Common Market after having subjected it to an industrial process'. It disputes that the fact that an undertaking is regarded as carrying on a production ac­ tivity in the sphere of coal within the ter­ ritory of a Member State necessarily has the consequence that the coal which is the sub­ ject of such activity becomes, through this, a product originating in the Community. In order that an undertaking which treats coal coming from outside the Common Market may be regarded as an undertaking within the meaning of the Treaty it is not neces-

sary, according to the applicant, that its ac­ tivity should be of such a character as to 'naturalize' the produce subject to industrial treatment by the undertaking.
As regards the character of the activity which it carries on in its plants, the appli­ cant reiterates that the fact that the various operations of crushing, washing and screen­ ing and, in another division of its undertak­ ing, the manufacture of compressed fuel, result directly in transforming a raw material into a finished product suffices to bring its activities within-:: the production cycle.
The applicant states also that the argument that the processing of coal on the surface of a mine has the nature of a production ac­ tivity within the meaning of the Treaty only because it is accessory to extraction is not supported by any argument and is irrecon­ cilable with the wording of Article 80 of the Treaty.	•
Lastly the applicant states that the observa­ tion of the defendant that, outside the pre­ sent application, it never occurred to it to regard itself as a producer, is irrelevant, since it is precisely in respect of the present application that the question arises and must be resolved. The applicant states that it is ready to accept the legal consequences which may follow for it from the recognition of its status as a producer.
The defendant disputes that the operations of crushing, washing and screening of anthracite carried on by Vloeberghs alter the substance of the product thus treated to the point of transforming a raw material into a finished product. As regards in par­ ticular the manufacture of compressed fuel, the defendant states that this is an activity which is quite distinct from the one in ques­ tion in the present case, for the coal which Mr Vloeberghs has not been able to bring into France is anthracite and not com­ pressed fuel. The defendant also finds in the applicant's argument a contradiction of the view held by the applicant that the product coming from his factory must not be regarded as originating in the Community (that argument is furthermore irreconcilable with the very wording of Annex I to the

205
