JUDGMENT OF 7. 4, 1965 - CASE 28/64


upon his duties is linked to the ques­ tion whether financial supervision is the responsibility of the Director-Gen-
• 	eral, a Director or a Head of Division (the sll!bordinacion to one of these superiors not implying however that they give him orders as to the exercise of his duties), that is to say if, in the definitions of the duties, his post is a post in career bracket A 3 or a post in career bracket A 5-A 4, he explains that at the time when he brought his action, he did not know who his im­ mediate superior was, so that he had considered that his post ought to be at least a post in career bracket A 5- A 4. It appears from the 'note to the staff' of 29 June 1964, which was given to him after the application was lodged, that the applicant works mrectly under Mr Markull, the Director-General, who, according to the list drawn up by the appointing authority in application of the decision of the Councils of 25 May 1964, is both his immediate superior and his •reporting officer.
It thus follows from the administrative situation as it appears at present that the applicant holds a post falling within career bracket A 3.
The defendant replies in the rejoinder that the word 'tJberwachung' appearing in the definitions of the duties attach­ ing to career bracket B 1 does not set out a different concept from that of 'Kontrolle'. It thus remains confirmed that supervisory duties may just as well be included in career bracket B 1 as in various career brackets of Category A, and that it is only by undertaking an examination of the nature and importance of the tasks of financial comptrollers that it is poss.ible to re­ solve the problem of their classification. With a view to proving that the duties of a financial comptroller at the Secre­ tariat are -to be regarded as executive duties, the defendant once more men­ tions the considerations already set out in its statement of defence concerning

246


the nature of the duties of the appli­ cant who is required to consider the conform.icy of cer):ain facts with legal rules and who carries out his super­ vision over a small sector of the acti­ vities of the officials who are authoriz­ ing officers.
In respect more particularly of the scope of the supervision carried out by the applicant, the defendant admits that the rules of the Staff Regulations are also taken into account by the comp­ troller, hurt nevertheless di tes that the latter may base himself, in the exercise of his duties, 'on all of the provisions applied by an admin1stra­ tive body'. The application of many of the rules is in fact removed from his power of supervision, since that is exercised only in respect of a body of rules which are well defined by reason of their financial nature.
Further, since the supervision carried out by the financial comptroller does not extend over all the acts of the officials who are authorizing officers, the claim of the applicant to be classi­ fied in Grade A by reason of the classification of these officials does not appear to be justified on this point either.
The defendant ends by referring once more to national law to prove that one and the same funotion may be exer­ cised by officials of different categories, and mentions the factors which appear to the defendant to justify the classifi­ cation in Grade A of financial comp­ trollers in the other institutions or in rhe secretariat of the conference set up at the time of the negotiations concern­ ing the accession of the United King­ dom to the Common Market.

IV-Procedure

The procedure followed the normal course.
On hearing the report of the Judge-
