MANNESMANN v HIGH AUTHORITY


The defendant does not press the issue of the formal admissibility of such a notice of set-off in an action for annulment, but con­ siders that the grounds stated for the claim are insufficient.

The applicants are oversimplifying when they treat the Fund, the Joint Bureau and the regional offices as a single entity for the purpose of establishing a connexity which is not there.

In reality, those three organs are different. legal entities and, in order to bring an action for damages, the applicants ought to have set out in greater detail which organs con­ ducted themselves wrongfully, what pre­ cisely constituted the wrong, whether their claims have their origin in civil law or in a wrongful act or omission under administra­ tive law and, above all, what can justify claims based on a wrongful act or omission on the part of the administration.

There exists no legal basis to any liability on the part of the Joint Bureau or the fund, still less on the part of the High Authority, for a wrongful act or omission by the DSVG.

In order to base a claim on liability for a wrongful act or omission on the part of the administration, the applicants would have had to prove:

the nature and extent of any damage caused them;

the existence of a wrongful act or omission on the part of the administration, that is, a particular instance of improper conduct;

the causal relationship between the wrong­ ful act or omission and the damage.

In this instance, the detriment suffered by the applicants cannot have been caused by the improper conduct of the organs of the equalization scheme; moreover there is no wrongful act or omission.
IV - Procedure

The actions are in due form and were brought within the prescribed time-limit.

The procedure, which involved the joinder of the cases, followed the normal course.





Grounds of judgment

I -  Admissibility of the applications

No objection was raised as to the admissibility of the applications.

The court finds no reason to challenge the admissibility of the applications of its own motion.

The right of the company Mannesmann AG, which contests the validity as re­ gards their substance of the decisions taken against the companies Mannesmann­ Hilttenwerke AG and Hahnsche Werke AG, to institute proceedings must be re­ cognized, since, as the undisputed assignee of those two undertakings, it wishes to take precautions against a formal amendment of the decision making it enfor­ ceable against itself.

Therefore it has a direct interest in the application for annulment.

129
