DEKKER v EUNDESVERSICHERUNGSANSTALT FOR ANGESTELLTE

II-The  substance  of the  case

Regarded from this point of view, the substance of the question is whether 'benefits in kind', within the meaning of Article 22 of Regulation No 3, include supplementary pension benefits which are intended as a contribution towards the financing of the beneficiary's sickness insurance.
Article 2 of Regulation No 3 lists the types of 'benefit' to which the Regu­ lation applies, and relates each of those 'benefits' to the occurrence of an actual risk ('sickness', 'maternity' etc.).
This emerges particularly clearly from the German version which mentions, for example, 'Leistungen bei Krankheit' (benefits in case of sickness).
Chapters 1 to 7 of Head III of the Regulation, which contain particular pro­ visions concerning each of the abovementioned risks, deals with each in the same order as they appear in Article 2.
In these circumstances it is evident that, where the provisions of those Chapters use the concept of 'benefit', they refer to 'benefits to be granted on the occurrence of the specific risk to which the Chapter in question relates.
Further, as Article 22 is found in Chapter 1 of the Head in question under the heading 'Sickness, Maternity', it appears that the concept of 'benefits in kind', which appears in the said Article, means benefits which are to be granted on the occurrence of an actual case of sickness or maternity.
This reasoning is reinforced by both Article 19 (5) of the Regulation, which refers to 'the provision of prostheses, major appliance and other substantial benefits in kind', and Article 22 (6), by which 'the beneficiary ... shall be entitled to the benefits in kind during temporary residence in the territory of a Member State other than his country of permanent residence'.
There is further support for this interpretation in the basic principle of Article 22, according to which 'benefits in kind' shall be issued by the in­ stitution of the place in which the person concerned permanently or tem­ porarily resides, regardless of which authority is in the final analysis liable to bear the cost of such benefits. •
In fact the said principle is totally consonant with the aim of Chapter 1, in question here, which is to ensure that medical assistance is available as rapid­ ly and effectively as possible to any worker who needs it. The expressions 'immediate' and 'extreme urgency' appearing in Article 19 (1) and (5) re­ spectively make this aim particularly clear.

905
