JUDGMENT OF 5. 5. 1966 -  JOINED CASES 18 AND 35/65


provided for in disciplinary matters whilst the transfer does not come within the pro­ vince of the latter, even though the decision to transfer him was taken on the same day as the decision to reprimand him.
It recalls that the applicant was, moreover, heard on two occasions.

(h) Complaint of infringement of Article 45 ( 2) of the Staff Regulations

The applicant claims that the transfer effected an alteration in his service without the holding of a competition.
The defendant replies that the Regulations set up only one true service ('cadre'), the linguistic service, which is not relevant to this case.

B - The prejudicial character of the suspen- sion and transfer decisions

The applicant claims that the file reveals the existence of wrongful acts involving the liability of the Community, especially in the posting up of the contested decisions at lspra; the applicant considers that his reputation and honour have been seriously impeached.
The defendant says that the suspension declaration was never posted up and that the decision of transfer was posted up as part of the monthly table of movements of personnel.
C - The legality of Vacancy Notice V/IS/40/65
The applicant claims that the vacancy notice is illegal as a direct consequence of the illegality of the transfer decision.
The defendant, denying that the transfer decision is illegal, disputes the illegality of the vacancy notice.

D -Legality of the Commission's decision of 20 and 21 January 1965 and 13 May 1965 concerning the disciplinary action with regard to the applicant

(a) Complaint of violation of the rule non bis in idem
The applicant points out that this is, in his

opinion, yet another instance of a breach of the rule non bis in idem, and that the proof of this lies in the documents annexed to the file of the case. He asks whether it is possible for a single factor to be quoted simulta­ neously as serious misconduct justifying suspension, and as requiring a transfer in the interests of the service-which would lead to confusion between the natures of the two measures.
The defendant replies that different facts have given rise to two measures of differing nature and that only one disciplinary measure was taken by the administration: the reprimand of 3 July 1964.

(b) Complaint of infringement oft he third paragraph of Article 88 of the Staff Regulations

The applicant recalls that the first sentence of the third paragraph of Article 88 obliges the administration to make a final decision on the position of a suspended official within four months and that the second sentence, providing for the contrary case, is by way of an exception and envisages the possibility of the administration's finding it impossible to act within the said period.
He considers that since 25 September 1964 the administration has made no effort, as the file shows.
He explains the decision of 13 May 1965 to postpone a ruling in the disciplinary pro­ ceedings by the fact that Application 18/65 had been lodged and by the desire to conceal the disciplinary nature of the transfer.
The defendant contends that Mr Gutmann, whose salary was not withheld, falls outside the ambit of this provision, which refers to a four months' time-limit for the sole purpose of restoring to the official, after this period has elapsed, his salary in full, when this has been partially or totally withheld during his suspension.
(c) Complaint of infringement of Article 25 of the Staff Regulations

The applicant complains that he did not receive nor was he given an opportunity to see within a reasonable time various docu­ ments in his file, and that no genuine inquiry was held; he has put forward formal con-


114
