DE VOS VAN STEENWIJK v COMMISSION


tains that this official had succeeded in obtaining a disproportionate in­ fluence in all departments and in acquiring powers which trespassed not only on those of the applicant, but also on those of his own col­ leagues;
2. His intervention in favour of Mr Nijsing, a Dutch official, which led to his remaining in the department at a time when Dr Ritter had almost decided to dismiss him.
The defendant maintains that these two incidents show an unfortunate tendency on the part of the applicant to see rela­ tionships within the department from a personal angle, which had led him constantly to commit indiscretions and even make outrageously slanderous re­ marks about the Directorate. The de­ fendant regards the Nijsing incident as a specific act of insubordination in that the applicant, disregarding the refusal of his Director, sent a telegram at his own expense to the Dutch member of the Commission, Mr Sassen.
The applicant observes that his personal action regarding Mr Nijsing was ac­ cepted by the Commission and that as a result Mr Nijsing remained in his post contrary to the recommendation of Dr Ritter. As to the Bodnarescu incident, the applicant maintains that his action was justified by the transfer of this offi­ cial to the Centre at Mol.

2. On the irregularity of the integration procedure
(a) The applicant maintains that the integration procedure as applied to himself was irregular in that, instead of being based on the first probation report drawn up in February 1962, it was based on a second probation report ('report on abilities') drawn up following a six months' extension of his trial period. This extension, authorized after the entry into force of the Staff Regulations, is illegal. The second probation report is also illegal in that, even under Article

34 of the Staff Regulations, it was sub­ mitted too late; it dates in fact from November 1962 although the extended probationary period came to an end on 15 May 1962.
The invalidity of the report of the Establishment Board, which results from the invalidity of the establishment re­ port, means that the contested decision is also invalid since it constitutes the necessary confirmation of the_ Board's opinion.
In view of the favourable statements contained in the probation report of 16 and 24 February 1962, the applicant states that if the Establishment Board has, as it should have done, based itself on this report, which is the only valid one, his integration could not have been refused.
The defendant objects that the applicant has not shown to what extent the alleged irregularity in the preparation of the probation report could vitiate the integration procedure. It maintains that, having regard to the contractual nature of the legal relationship between the servant and the Community during the period before the entry into force of the Staff Regulations, the probation report had no legal effect as regards servants. Moreover, the defendant states that, as the applicant had been employed since
15 May 1961, there· had been no extension of his probationary period within the meaning of Article 34 of the Staff Regulations. Lastly it maintains that, as the establishment report pro­ vided for in Article l 02 of the Staff Regulations was a specific document expressly required by those Regulations, no other document could be substituted for it by the Establishment Board.
The applicant maintains that the de­ fendant is playing with words by main­ taining that only one establishment report was drawn up. He emphasizes that the heading in the probation report which determines its content was the same as that used in the establishment report. There were therefore no grounds
325
