MOREAU v COMMISSION


Case 60/65

The submission based on Article 102 (1) of the Staff Regulations of Officials.
The applicant submits that his classification in Grade A 3, Step 2, is contrary to the provisions of Article 102 (1) of the Staff Regulations. His case is that, before the Staff Regulations were applied to him, he had by implication been accorded Grade A 3, Step 4, which corresponds, according to such Staff Regulations, to the duties which he performed before they entered into force and which he still performs.
The defendant denies that the applicant had by implication been accorded Grade A 3, Step 4, before the Staff Regulations were applied to him. The applicant has confused establishment in the grade and at the step, which had been 'impliedly' accorded him under Article 102 of the Staff Regulations with the harmonization of posts and grades in accordance with Article 5 and Annex I. The applicant replies that, according to the interpretation of Article 102 of the Staff Regulations suggested by the defendant, the presence of the adverb 'impliedly' in the text of this Article would be completely mean­ ingless.
The defendant replies that the word 'im­ pliedly' in Article 102 cannot refer to the grading to which servants were entitled after the harmonization of posts and grades, for the very good reason that this Article refers to the grade and step accorded before the Staff Regulations were applied to them. Moreover it cannot be denied that before the applicant was integrated he was only ever classified in Grade A 4, Step 4.

The submission relating to the revaluation of the applicant's post

The applicant submits that in any case, even though the Staff Regulations are silent on this point, it must be accepted that, when­ ever a post is revalued the servant occupying the post is entitled to be classified in his new grade at the step accorded him in his former grade.
The defendant takes the view that this argu­ ment, which was applied in the case of Collotti v Court of Justice of the EEC, can­ not be used in this case. The principle put

forward by the applicant would in fact favour without any justification officials who had been assigned to posts which had been revalued, compared with those offi­ cials who had from the beginning been directly recruited in a higher post or who had obtained such a post by promotion before the entry into force of the Staff Reg­ ulations. The automatic application of such an abstract principle would in many cases cause the unjustified passing-over of serv­ ants with greater seniority and occupying a higher grade by younger servants who, al­ though they performed the same duties, were in a lower grade before the posts were revalued.
In order to determine the step in this case, Article 46 of the Staff Regulations must be applied. This provision not only covers promitions but also all appointments to a higher grade, including those made on the entry into force of the Staff Regulations with the object of ensuring that grades cor­ respond to posts.
Because of the fundamental difference be­ tween the situation of an official like Mr Collotti appointed under the Staff Regula­ tions. and the applicant Mr Moreau, who was engaged as a contractual servant, he is not in the position to rely on the criterion laid down in the Collotti Judgment.
On this point the defendant refers to the opinion of Mr Advocate-General Gand in Case 43/64, that the absence of any reliable method of assigning a grade and step under the system adopted before the Staff Regula­ tions entered into force by reference to the system adopted by the EAEC does not per­ mit a valid comparison which could lead with any certainty to a more favourable evaluation of the same duties and conse­ quently to a revaluation of the post.
The defendant emphasizes that in fact under the system adopted before the Staff Regula­ tions entered into force the grade and step were not primarily determined according to the type of post and seniority in the service respectively but also by reference to various factors not directly connected with the ac­ tual duties: experience, merit, age, previous salary, domestic situation etc. These factors cannot therefore be used as a basis for a comparison of posts and therefore for the revaluation of a post. In addition, under the

463
