JUDGMENT OF 1, 1:2. 1965 - CASE 16/6


statement of reasons if it satisfies the requirement that the addressee or ad­ dressees, iin this case the Member States, be kept fully informed. It is in fac•t the appropriate authorities in the Member Stares which supply the ComaLssion with ,the necessary proposals. In addi­ tion tlle detailed information on the basis of which prices are fixed is avail­ able ,to Member States since their repre­ sentatives sit on .the Management Com­ mittee for <:ereals. Regulation No 89 was adopted after consultation with that Committee in accordance with ,the pro­ cedure provided for in Article 26 of Regulation No 19. The inteq,retacion and application, and any necessary al­ teration, of the criteria ment:oned in Regulation No 89 have been discussed by the Management Comm1t,tee on several occasions.
The statement of reasons for price­ fixing decisions cannot ,be made to suit the needs for information of third parties affected by these decisions, such as importers. The price-fixing is done exclusively (in the case of cif prices for cereals, for instance) or at least par­ tially (as in the case of free-at-frontier prices for cereals) on the basis of in­ formation suwlied by 1mporters and exporters. This information is a com­ mercial secret and Article 214 of the Treaty obliges the Commission not to disclose such confidential information. Moreover :if this were not observed the sources providing such information would dry up.
In determining the free-at frontier price for cereals, the starting point should ·be the lowest freight costs between the representative market and the frontier crossing ,point. The point made above about information supplied in confid­ ence by :importers and exporters applies equally, mutatis mutandis, to the in­ formacion supplied in confidence by the transporters. Disclosure of the freight costs would have more far-reaching con­ sequences ,than were intended or could be intended by the system of levies on

884

cereals; it would affect competJtJ.on in
,the transport market itself. Up to now the Council has taken -the view that it would be unwise to publish the tarills under the common transport policy.
Furthermore, revealing ,the facts might heLp some importers or exipor.rers to gain a dominant position in -the mar­ ket.
The Commission observes that .it is aware of the fact that it is difficult for importers to check ,the fixing of prices, but repeats its assertion that -the only absolute requirement to be met in stat­ ing the reasons is that of satisfying the need 1:0 inform addressees. Where there is no reason to fear that sources of in­ formation will be revealed, the relevant depar'1lroents of tlhe Commission have on occasion informed importers of the offers and other factors itaken into account when a particular price was fixed.

2. Calculation of ·the free-at-frontier price on the. basis of ,the price of barley imported into the Nether­ lands
The Finanzgericht considers that the di&puted decision is illegal if, as Schwarze states, the Commission cal­ culated the free-at-frontier price for imports into Germany of barley from the Nethe1fands on the basis of the price for ·barley imported into the Netherlands.
On tlle !information available to the Ola.nmission, ,this statement is correct. However, neither the provisions of Regulation No 19 (Articles 2 and 3) nor those of Regulation No 86 (Article 1) cited above require that the free-at­ frontier price be fixed on tlle ibasis of products harvested iin the exporting Member States. A comparison of the German text with the text of the other three languages shows that the ambigu­ ous German word 'stam.mend' must be interpreted not in the sense of 'origina,t­ ing in' (Ursprung) but as 'coming from' (Herkunft).
