JUDGMENT OF 4. 4. 1960 - JOINED CASES 4 TO 13159


seller's obligation to produce documents establishing beyond any possible dispute qualification for equalization. If, in fact, the scrap delivered did not qualify for equaliza­ tion, the seller could not demand payment of the price, at least for the part which was to be payable and paid only on the basis of the right to equalization agreed in the con­ tract of sale.

Thus, either the scrap delivered did qualify for equalization, and for that reason the High Authority has no right to repayment, or it did not so qualify, and in that case the payment of which the High Authority is seeking repayment was not made in perfor­ mance of an obligation on the applicants, and therefore was not made to the appli­ cants or on their behalf. Therefore the con­ tested decisions cannot rely on a right which, by its nature, was capable of being established by a decision of the High Au­ thority against the applicants.
The defendant answers these arguments of the applicants in detail under the heading of infringement of the Treaty (see under Din­ fra).

5. Inasmuch as the High Authority bases its competence on unjustified enrichment of the applicants, the applicants maintain that they could not be enriched by the pay­ ment made by the DSVG to Hansa; indeed, for scrap of whatever provenance, they have only to pay the internal price.

The defendant, however, takes the view that there is an enrichment of the appli­ cants, in view of the fact that they received an equalization payment to which they were not entitled; moreover, an action for damages against their seller is available to them.

6. As regards the content of the contested decisions, the applicants criticize the fact that the High Authority decided that a con­ tract existed between themselves and Han­ sa. It was not, however, competent todo so; by its decisions, it can only regulate the ap­ plicants' public law relations with the Com­ munity, but cannot make findings in the field of private law concerning a purported

contract between Hansa and the applicants in order to justify its claims.

The defendant replies that indeed it cannot recover a private law debt by means of an administrative decision, but that it is fully competent to note such a debt when it is establishing a public law debt.

Thus, in the present case, the High Author­ ity was competent to decide on questions in the field of private law, since it has a general duty to judge whether the conditions for a debt coming under public law are fulfilled.

B - Misuse of powers

I. The applicants maintain that the High Authority misused its powers through a misuse of procedure in purporting, in the absence of any already existing pecuniary obligation directly resulting from the func­ tioning of the financial arrangement, to create such an obligation by the contested decisions themselves, and in employing to that end the summary procedure which is open to it only for ascertaining and putting into effect obligations the legal foundation of which is clearly derived from the Treaty.

In this way the High Authority is employ­ ing the administrative procedure of making an order to pay in order to pass on the con­ sequences of its own wrongful conduct to certain undertakings.

The defendant answers that a pecuniary ob­ ligation on the part of the applicants does exist as the equalization in question 'bene­ fited' them. The High Authority employed the only means at its disposal to obtain re­ payment thereof.

2. The applicants also consider as constitut­ ing a misuse of procedure the fact that the High Authority used the medium of an ad­ ministrative decision to give the impression that the complex involving both public law and private law justifies its claims, by as­ serting as facts in the contested decisions matters involving private law, such as 'the applicants received payments' or 'the equal­ ization benefited them'. This cannot result in a final settlement of the complex in dis-


120
