KALKUHL v PARLIAMENT


III-Submissions and arguments on admissibility
The applicant claims ,that appeals are admissible 1Under Article 90 of the Staff Regulations of officials, as that provision does nor lay down any period of limi,ta­ tion.
Further, the judgment in the Collotti case can be considered to be a new factor as a resuLr of which ,the decision taken on the applicant's complaint is to !be considered as a fresh decision.
In various judgments the Court has as­ serted that 'apart from the actual parties in proceedings before the Cour.r, the only persons concerned by the legal effects of a judgment of •the Court an­ nulling a measure are the persons dir'..c ect>ly affected by the measure which is aoouUed'.
In this case, on ·the entry into force of the new Staff Regulations the method of integrating sef!Vants was adopted by common agreement between all the institutions, which fact guaranteed uni­ fomnity in individual appointments. One can therefore maintain, according to ·the applicant, that all decisions concerning

classification and appointment thereby • become decisions common to the institu­ tions and ·that, consequently, each of them directly concerns a!ll the institu­ tions.
Following the judgllllent in ,the Collotti case, fresh consultations took place be­ tween the institutions and, yet again, a common decision was adopted capable of idetlltical aiprplication •in individual cases in the various institutions.
Therefore, 1t is alleged, one can dedruce therefrom that all the institutions were directly affected by the measure dis­ puted in the Collooti case.
The applicant fur,ther maintains that, since the judgment in the Collotti case declared that the interpretation of the provisions of the Staff Regulations on which the decis:ons of appointment of December 1962 were based was incor­ rect, good faith requires •that the right of appeal. against these decisions may be revived, even after the eX!piry of the th11'ee months foMowing the notiification of the said decisions.
During both the written and oral pro cedures the defendant relied on the wisdom of the Court with regard to the question of inadmissibility.


Gr01.1umds of judgment
The  admissibility  of  the. application

By an application of 8 July 1965, the applicant contested before the Court the refusal of the President of the Parliament of 9 April 1965 to give a favourable reply to her complaint of 30 March 1965 relating to the classifica­ tion given to her by a decision of 15 June 1962, notified to the applicant on 20 December 1962.

By order of 14 July 1%5 the Court decided to examine the admissibility of the application of its own motion.

Under Article 91(2) of the Staff Regulations of officials appeals to the Court must be filed within a period of three months from the date of notification to the person concerned of the decision in dispute.

1013
