MERONI v HIGH AUTHORITY

column). The High Authority cannot however be criticized for having waited for the result of pending actions before finally making up its mind in this connexion. Nor do the other recitals of the said decision, which are designed to justify some of the corrections of which the applicants complain, disclose any facts which might amount to prima facie evidence of negligent administration. Finally, as a general observation, it must be said that, to the extent to which previous errors or defects in the calculation of the actual bases of assessment to the equalization levy, for exam­ ple the total amount of scrap subject to equalization, may have called for certain corrections, those errors and defects do not amount ipso facto to a wrongful act and omission. They may just as well be for example the result of difficulty of solution of intricate legal problems or of the carelessness of the undertakings themselves which are subject to the High Authority's administration. In any case the applicants have not specifically demonstrated that there have been inexcusable mistakes.

The foregoing considerations taken as a whole, lead to the conclusion that the ap­ plicants have not proved the existence of a wrongful act or omission.


IV-Whether the actions are time-barred and whether the in- jury had the nature of special damage

Since the applications have to be dismissed as unfounded on the grounds that there is no wrongful act or omission and also that no injury has been suffered there is no need to rule on the question whether the claims made by the applicants are in part time-barred.

For the like reasons there is no need in these cases to rule whether under Article 40 of the Treaty the damage in respect of which reparation is claimed must be in the nature of special damage and whether this condition is satisfied.


V - Costs

Under Article 69(2) of the Rules of Procedure the unsuccessful party shall be ordered to pay the costs. The applicants have failed in all their submissions and must therefore bear the costs.

On those grounds,

Upon reading the pleadings;
Upon hearing the report of the Judge-Rapporteur; Upon hearing the parties;
Upon hearing the opinion of the Advocate-General;
171
