




I -  Facts

NETHERLANDS v HIGH AUTHORITY

JUDGMENT
Issues of fact and of law


Thefacts may be summarized as follows: By Decisions Nos 5/56, 6/56, 7/56 and 8/56, the High Authority authorized the mining companies of the Ruhr Basin to associate themselves into three selling agencies for a period of three years. By Decision No 17/59 the High Authority, while extending these au­ thorizations for one year, found that in actual operation these organizations had frequently failed to comply with the aut orizations granted and that, con­ traty to the provisions of the Treaty, a single marketing system had existed.
By Decision No 16/60, the High Au­ thority rejected the request by almost every mining company of the Ruhr Basin for the authorization of a single joint-selling organization.
An application (Case 13/60) was lodged by the mining companies against this rejection and by Decision No 17/60 the High Authority temporarily extended the earlier authorizations.
Following the judgment of the Court of
18 May 1962 dismissing Application 13/60; the High Authority, by Decision No 6/62, fixed 31 March 1963 as the limit of validity of the earlier authoriza­ tions.
The mining companies of the Ruhr Basin then concluded new agreements associating themselves into two roups in order to sell their products Jointly through the selling agencies 'Geitling' and 'Prasident', each representing one of these groups.
On 20 March 1963 the High Authority authorized these agreements by the contested Decisions Nos 5/63 and 6/63 (Official Journal, IO April I963, No. 57).
II -  Conclusions  of the  parties
The applicant claims that the Court should:


'annul Decisions Nos 5/63 and 6/63 taken on 20 March 1963 by the High Authority of the ECSC;
order the High Authority to pay the costs.'
The defendant contends that the Court should:
'dismiss the application as unfounded
and
order the applicant to pay the costs of the proceedings.'
III - Submissions	and	argu- ments of the	parties
The submissions and arguments of the parties may be summarized as follows:
A -  On admissibility

The defendant does not question the admissibility of the application.
B - On the substance of the case

I. On the submission of infringement of an essential procedural requirement
(a) The applicant asserts that as the contracts and resolutions authorized were not published in extenso, the grounds for the contested Decisions give only an incomplete picture of the system ap­ proved by the High Authority.
The defendant replies that it is not ob­ liged under the Treaties to publish in full the texts of the agreements which it authorizes under Article 65 (2). To enable the parties concerned to assess the legality of the measures authorized, the authorization Decisions need only set out the essential features of the agreements on which they are based.
The applicant contends that frequently it is the details of the companies' legal
535
