JUDGMENT OF 12. 7. 1957 - JOINED CASES 7/56 AND 3 TO 7157


if they had not considered the legal status conferred on them in December 1955 as de­ finitive. On account of their uncertain situ­ ation with the Community, they have in the meantime declined other offers of em­ ployment.

(II) Arguments put forward by the Common Assembly in its statement of defence
A. The applications are inadmissible.

It is not permissible 'to join two sets of pro­ ceedings of different and contradictory kinds', to lodge an application only in the alternative and to present the Court of Jus­ tice with the alternative of upholding one application or the other.
The applicants cannot rely upon the sev­ enth paragraph of Article 34 of the Staff Regulations, because in the event of the ap­ plication for annulment being dismissed, they would have lost their rights under the Staff Regulations. Furthermore, that provi­ sion deals with assigning non-active status owing to requirements of the service, a case which is not applicable to the applicants, since they are still at present in the service of the Common Assembly.

B. The applications are also unfounded, since there is no material damage, or if there is any, the applicants caused it themselves. The applicants were expressly submitted to meet the eventualities of the Court's find­ ing that the measures adopted by the Com­ mon Assembly were legitimate, and there­ fore that returning the applicants to the si­ tuation of officials on contract was also le­ gitimate, and of the Court's dismissing the application for annulment. In that case, the applicants were in error as to the legal situ­ ation when they rejected the proposals, and they should bear the consequences of their mistake.
Following the decision of the Bureau of the
Common Assembly to suspend implemen­ tation of the contested measures until the Court had given its decision, the applicants have been receiving a higher salary than their colleagues who accepted Mr Vanrull­ en's proposals.
There can be no question of 'demotion', since the applicants are no longer servants

under the Staff Regulations; it is merely a question of classification at a lower level. The applicants are entitled only to compen­ sation for termination of employment, to be calculated within the framework of the con­ tract of employment.

C. The claim for compensation in respect of non-material damage is also unfounded. No such damage exists, or if it does exist, it is the applicants' fault. If the applicants had accepted Mr Vanrullen's proposals, they would have maintained the same 'moral' status. Furthermore, they have to perform the same duties as before.
Moreover, this is clearly a question of typi­ cal indirect damage, which is difficult, not to say impossible, to assess.
As to their assertion that they have refused offers of employment outside the Commu­ nity, the applicants have not produced any evidence. Furthermore, it was open to the applicants to remain in the service of the Common Assembly.
(III) 	Arguments put forward by the applicants in their reply
A. The plea of inadmissibility is not rele­ vant. It is quite possible for the fate of an ap­ plication presented independently to de­ pend on the result of other proceedings. Such a course of action on the part of the ap­ plicants is not contrary to any provision. The applications are not contradictory. The consequence of the success of the applica­ tion for annulment would be that the Court would not have to decide the second appli­ cation.

B. Even if the Common Assembly had been entitled to accede to the request for harmonization made by the Committee of Presidents, which right is contested, it in no way follows therefrom that the applicants cannot seek compensation for the damage resulting for them from the fact that the Administration failed to honour the irre­ vocable undertakings entered into towards them. The invalidity, if proved, of a deci­ sion, which moreover was formulated in secret, cannot be relied upon against the ap­ plicants, who were entitled to consider that decision as being regular.
A. 

52
