JUDGMENT OF 15.7.1960 - CASE 25159


C. The applicant protests against the inter­ ference by the High Authority with the trading policy of undertakings which do not come within its jurisdiction. Transport un­ dertakings do not fall within the definition given by Article 80 to undertakings within the meaning of the Treaty.

The defendant makes no direct reply to this ground of complaint, probably because the reply given under A to the first complaint of lack of competence is of general applica­ tion.

2. Infringement of an essential procedural re- quirement

(a) The applicant and the interveners claim that there has been a failure to fulfil the pro­ cedural requirements of Article 88 of the Treaty. They point out that, in its letter of 12 August 1958, the High Authority, in ac­ cordance with the procedure laid down in Article .88, gave the Netherlands Govern­ ment the opportunity to submit its com­ ments in offering it, in common with the other Governments, the choice of three methods whereby it could fulfil its obliga­ tions in connexion with road transport.

When the Netherlands Government chose the third m'ethod, there was no reaction on the part of the High Authority, nor was there any to the Netherlands Government's letter of 29 November 1958 or when the Royal Decree of 24 December 1958 began putting it into effect, but it took a decision restricting the choice in future to two al­ ternatives only.
Article 88, which lays down a system of sanctions, provides safeguards; the first of these compels the High Authority to obtain the comments which the Member States must submit concerning the obligations which, according to the High Authority, are imposed upon them. If the High Authority sees fit to change its mind on the subject, it must set the procedure of Article 88 in mo­ tion once more and invite Governments to submit fresh comments.
The interveners emphasize that the Nether­ lands Government did not reject the High

Authority's proposals. It was in fact the High Authority which changed its view of the situation when it yielded to the wishes expressed by German industry and the French Government. There was, accor­ dingly, no failure on the part of the Nether­ lands Government.

They further contend that the contested de­ cision makes provisions for other measures of very much wider application and, on ac­ count of this, for obligations other than those referred to in the letter of 12 August 1958. With regard to these other measures, which were of an entirely different charac­ ter, the Governments were not given an op­ portunity-to decide their attitude before pu­ blication of the decision and this was a fla­ grant infringement of Article 88 of the Treaty which, in express terms, prescribes safeguards designed to prevent an infringe­ ment of the Treaty being recorded in a de­ cision without further warning. In failing to give Governments the opportunity to com­ ment in advance on the measures imposed upon them by their decision and which, ac­ cording to the Authority, were binding upon those Governments under the Treaty, the High Authority infringed an essential procedural requirement, in this case Article 88 of the Treaty.

The defendant points out that the Nether­ lands Government did not in fact accept the third alternative offered in the letter of 12 August 1958 but hedged its choice about with reservations and conditions which were unacceptable; this applies especially to the requirement that the High Authority must treat all information communicated to it as confidential.

Moreover, the disappearance of the third 'solution' in Decision No 18/59, the reason for which is made clear in the grounds for the decision, was justified because, judging by the replies which the High Authority re­ ceived to its letter of 12 August 1958, it could not be regarded as ensuring that the Treaty would be applied.

The comments provided for in the first par­ agraph of Article 88 are of value only be­ cause they enable the State concerned, as


362
