COLLOITI v COURT


bly, but a document prepared by the General Staff Regulations Committee for the Committee of Presidents. The confusions may have arisen because the document was typed at the Assembly on its headed notepaper. But the staff knew of this document since it was prepared by the General Staff Regula­ tions Committee composed of the assem­ bled representatives of the institutions and of the staff.
With regard to the nature of Grade L/A under the system of the former Staff Regulations of the ECSC, the defendant observes that, although it is true that, following the decision of the Com­ mittee of Presidents, 'a new grade' was introduced (the first grade of the Lan­ guage Department), it is also true, as the applicant himself has said, that this grade is effectively the same as Grade A 4. Moreover, the applicant did not establish this recently. He expressed it even more clearly in the above-men­ tioned letter of 3 March 1961, stating: 'At the time when the Staff Regulations were applied, I was classified in Grade L/A, a grade which was arbitrarily created, and which is on{y Grade 4 dis­ guised by a false description' (Schedule I to the rejoinder p. 2, second paragraph).
It is impossible to recognize more clearly that the administration of the Court was justified in taking Grade 4 as the basis for classifying the applicant in Grade 3 under the new Staff Regulations.
If an additional argument is required that the course of action of the adminis­ tration of the Court was justified it may be found in the observation which the applicant himself makes that the career bracket of the Head of the Language Department extends over Grades A 3 and A 4 in the Staff Regulations of the EEC and EAEC (p. 12, in fine of the reply). Indeed, the Staff Regulations of the ECSC provide only for Grade A 3. But can a common institution ignore two of the three sets of Staff Regulations which it must apply simultaneously? The defendant adds that the classifica-

tion of the Head of the Language Department was determined in an iden­ tical fashion by all the institutions, which clearly indicates that there was no discrimination against the applicant.
The defendant does not dispute the fact that it wished the Head of the Language Department to be classified in Grade 3 when the former Staff Regulations of the ECSC entered into force. The interventions of Mr Pilotti, the Chair­ man of the Committee of Presidents, the documents of the Court relating to the classification of its staff, the interven­ tions of the Registrar at the admini­ strative meetings, in accordance with the instructions received by him, are clear in this matter.
But all this is concerned with preparatory work. The fact is that the decision taken did not conform to the views of the Court and that, consequently, it was necessary to classify the staff in ac­ cordance with the decision which the Court in the end approved. Therefore, when the Staff Regulations entered into force, it was necessary to modify certain provisional classifications or equations of positions existing prior to that date, and certain officials found that they had lost ground to others whose positions were in higher grades. This emerges from the data put forward by the applicant in his reply (p. 8, first para­ graph), while he calls 'the essential part of the celebrated table' which he had requested the administration to produce.
The applicant did not, however, suffer any pecuniary loss by being integrated under the former Staff Regulations of the ECSC since he immediately obtained an increase of 500 francs per month (see statement of defence, p. 3).
The applicant recognizes, moreover, that the relationship between employer and employee in the public sector is different from that in the private sector (p. 12, third paragraph of the reply). Staff Regulations are 'enacted' not 'negotiated'.

449
