GUTMANN v COMMISSION


patible, since their combination amounts to a failure to observe the general duty to safeguard the interests of officials (Fiirsor­ gepflicht) owed by the administration to all its officials, particularly where they have already been the subject of severe measures. The defendant considers that the course of action to be adopted in the interests of the service may become apparent during a period of suspension just as at any other time in an official's career, and that no provision prevents the necessary adminis­ trative, as opposed to disciplinary, measures from being taken.
It explains further that any official may be transferred, particularly to a place where he has already worked for two years and which offers housing and educational facilities for children.
Lastly, it recalls that the Director-General for Administration allowed the applicant a month and a half in which to start his new employment.
(c) Complaint as to statement of reasons

Relying on various documents in thefile, the applicant complains that the reasons given are false or inaccurate in view of the facts which led up to the transfer and that they were based on the effects of the reprimand on his relationship with his staff.
The defendant, in replying, likewise refers to the file, emphasizing that a reprimand 'despite the supposed confidentiality and secrecy of disciplinary measures' cannot avoid becoming known in one way or another.

(d) 	Complaint of infringement of Articles 4 and 29 of the Staff Regulations

The applicant believes that the fact that the transfer came at the same time as the posting of the vacancy notice in Brussels for the post to which he was transferred without having applied for it proves that the Staff Regulations were infringed.
The defendant replies that Article 29 of the Staff Regulations in no way prohibits an institution from filling a vacant post on the same day as the vacancy notice for it is posted, or from deciding to transfer to another post an official who has not applied

for it.
The applicant states that he was transferred to a non-existent post and that no serious work has been required of him for some time.
The defendant replies that after the inevit­ able period of adjustment the applicant is at present occupied in performing the duties for which the department in which he is employed is responsible.
(e) 	Complaint of infringement of Article 110 of the Staff Regulations and of the provisions concerning vacancy­ notices
The applicant points out that the vacancy notice advertising the Brussels post to which he was transferred was posted with­ out prior notification to the Staff Commit­ tee and gave no precise indication of the nature of the duties or the closing date for applications.
The defendant replies that Article 110 of the Staff Regulations does not require the Staff Committee to be notified in respect of general provisions; that the lack of preci­ sion is due merely to a simplification of the procedure in order to obtain a quick result, and that the Staff Regulations do not requi­ re a closing date to be fixed for receipt of applications.
(f) Complaint of infringement of Article 25 of the Staff Regulations
The applicant complains of the absence of the statement of reasons on which the con­ tested decision is based, and of the claim that it was taken in the interests of the ser­ vice, which is unfounded, as the file shows. The defendant replies that the only decisions which need stafe the reasons on which they are based are those adversely affecting an official-not a case in which a transfer is made in the interests of the service.
(g) Complaint of misuse of powers
The applicant complains that the allegations of fact and the file of the case disclose that the decision to transfer him was taken in order to avoid having to take a new formal disciplinary measure and to evade the necessity for observing the rights of the defence.
The defendant considers that the applicant is seeking the benefit of the guarantees

113
