JUDGMENT OF 30. 6. 1966 -  CASE 56/65


Article. It is for the appropriate national law to decide what may subsist. No undesir­ able consequence for Community law re­ sults from this because 'after the nullity imposed by Community law has struck out the contractual terms which run counter to the functioning of the Common Market, there is nothing unusual in leaving the national legal system to decide the fate of the rest of the agreement'. Furthermore the national legal systems treat the rest of the agreement in much the same way. Finally the system under which that part of an agreement which is contrary to Community rules is void is a Community system, and this is what matters.
In short the Commission proposes that 'in an agreement containing a clause which is contrary to Article 85 (1) of the EEC Treaty this clause is necessarily automatically void under Article 85 (2)' but that 'the validity of the other provisions of the agreement are to be determined in accordance with the rules of the national law applicable to the par­ ticular case'.
M.B.U. recalls that it has argued before the Cour d'Appel, Paris, that the contract at issue escapes the application of Article 85
(1) and (2) and that in addition, although the Cour d'Appel, Paris, has asked the Court of Justice of the European Commun­ ities to rule on the scope of Article 85 (2), it cannot have asked the Court to apply this provision.
As an alternative argument M.B.U. asserts that in any event the nullity can only apply to the clause in the agreement containing the undertaking that the dealership is to be exclusive. It is said that cases on Article 1172 of the French Civil Code have decided that the nullity of a clause in an agreement only renders the agreement itself void if this clause is one which is decisive for agree­ ment between the parties.
Thus the Court's task is not to decide whether the clause at issue is a fundamental or an ancillary term of the agreement, but to decide whether or not it is compatible with the Common Market.

M.B.U. states that possible nullity might not only be governed by the national legal order, but, where applicable, by the Com­ munity legal order itself. In this latter case one must have recourse to the uniform legal principles of the Member States, the legisla­ tion and the case-law of which accept the possibility of maintaining agreements when this result is in accordance with the pre­ sumed intentions of the parties or with what is fair and reasonable when the inter­ ests of the parties are weighed up. The rec­ ognition of these uniform legal principles by the Court binds the courts and tribunals of the Member States.

Thus in the case contemplated by the ques­ tion referred, the agreement at issue would become a non-exclusive agreement for the supply of goods.

T.M. argues that since the agreement at issue has not been notified it should be regarded as prohibited by Article 85 (1) and automatically void under Article 85 (2), because of Articles 5 and 6 of Regulation No 17.
It is asserted that the judgment in Case 13/61 supports this line of reasoning, and that in accordance with this reasoning the agreement should be declared void as from 13 March 1962.
T.M. considers that the wording of Article 85 (2) is clear and precise and that the whole agreement is void, as such nullity is a pen­ alty the efficacy of which requires that it be not limited in its effects. Further one might wonder what would be left of an exclusive dealing agreement if the clauses containing its objectives were struck out.
T.M. remarks finally that in general terms the question whether or not a prohibited clause renders the whole agreement void, depending on whether the clause is a fun­ damental and decisive term of the agree­ ment, hinges on the intention of the parties the evaluation of which is solely for the courts having jurisdiction.





246
