JUDGMENT OF 18.5.1962 -CASE 13/60


price-levels, clearly amounts tosaying that a cartel which dominates the market must be authorized ifbetween 5 and IO% of'outsider' undertakings threaten its position. The references to the Eighth General Report are beside the point; even in the event of a structural crisis the Treaty does not provide for a 'structural crisis cartel' to resolve it. The proposed agreement has no such object in view, since it does not provide for a controlled decrease in production capacity.
If one deduces from  the use of
measures dictated by commercial policy that the Ruhr lacks the power to determine prices one is led back to the argument that the High Authority and the Government of Member States have no right to intervene as long as cartels are capable of attaining the objectives of the Treaty.
- The extensive exposition devoted to the question of fuel-oils is irrelevant. The High Authority gave express recognition in thestatement ofreasons for its contested Decision to the fact that fuel-oils present a strong and ever-growing element of competition. It is generally agreed, moreover, that this competition affects different types of coal in differing ways.
- Coking coal appears to be least affected by competition from fuel-oils. Prices of this type of coal have been rising steadily and were raised again in 1960. The general decrease in production affected coking coal less than other types. In fact 1% more was extracted in the Ruhr in 1960 than in 1959. Furthermore; stocks fell and statistiai show that cokes for blast furnaces and foundries are virtually immune tocompetition from fuel-oils. The alleged tendency amongst smelting-works to product their own coke is also unfounded: the proportion of coke produced in this way has for years amounted to less

than 10% of total production in the Federal Republic.
-As  for 'certain types of anthracite', it is characteristic of the applicants to request authorization to conclude agr ements for the balance of employ­ ment, wherein it is noted that, with regard to the anthracite in question, far from experiencing a recession, producers are often unable to meet the demand.
(e) The applicants express the opinion
that the 'Ruhrkohle Verkaufsgesellschaft mit beschrankter Haftung' has no 'power to determine prices' since it cannot make an independent choice as to the level of prices in respect of a substantial proportion of its sales. The influence on prices which would result naturally from the formation of a single joint­ selling agency, in that it eliminates competition between the members of the cartel, is not relevant to the question whether the cartel as such has the actual power to determine prices on the market for the goods it sells. The influence upon prices exercised by the practice of joint selling docs not amount to domination of the market or to the exercise of a power to determine prices within the meaning of Article 65{2){c) (cf. the opinion of Mr Advocate-General Lagrange in Joined Cases 36 to 38/59). In the present case, there could only be said to be a prohibited cartel if 'Ruhr­ kohle Verkaufsgesellschaft' no longer encountered any real competition on the market.
The defendant emphasizes the difference between 'fixing' and 'determining' prices. Moreover, certain statistics con­ stitute in themselves a statement of reasons and dispense with the necessity for lengthy observations; 80% of the applicants' total sales are made in the Federal Republic, and 73.1 % of German coal consumption is met by undertaking in the Ruhr basin. These figures raise a presumption that a power of determining prices independently on the German market does exist. This being so, it is for

92
