AClERIES BELGES v HIGH AUTHORITY


5, 46 and 54 of the Treaty: the High Author­ ity may not have recourse to the financial arrangements under Article 53 for the pur­ pose of prohibiting certain new installations or of encouraging certain investments, whilst disregarding the requirements of Ar­ ticle 54.

The applicant maintains that the contested provisions, under the guise of the financial arrangements pursuant to Article 53 (b), have as their aim or inevitable and foresee­ able effect the regulation or penalizing of in­ vestments. In this sphere Articles 46 and 54 clarify and limit the powers of the defend­ ant. The defendant may not exceed those limits, even through the expedient of Arti­ cle 57; it may not do through indirect action what is prohibited through direct action. Since the defendant is aware (Cf. the pre­ amble to Decision No 3/56) that in certain manufacturing processes, such as basic Bessemer converters and solid-charged electric furnaces, it is impossible to effect economies in ferrous scrap, it is directly influencing investments and penalizing ad­ ditional consumption of ferrous scrap.

The applicant in addition charges the High Authority with having desired to prohibit certain investments and to regulate others without having regard to individual consul­ tations and to the specific studies required under Article 54 and, consequently, in or­ der to avoid recourse to the formalities pro­ vided for therein which it considered more irksome.

The defendant replies that although it is true that the contested provisions are capable of having an effect on investments it is none the less true that this consequence, albeit foreseeable, cannot be treated as equivalent to the objective, which remains the regular supply to the market of ferrous scrap ac­ quired at a reasonable price.

With regard to the misuse of procedure this complaint is unacceptable. With regard to investments Article 54 is not exhaustive
.and Article 53 makes it possible to adopt measures which must be expected to affect investments. Accordingly there are no grounds for complaining that the High Au-

thority has exercised the powers conferred upon it by Article 53.

Fourth complaint: Contradiction between the various objectives stated in Decision No 2/57 on the one hand and the objectives stated and the objectives actually pursued on the other.

The applicant states that there exists a con­ tradiction between the two objectives stated by the decision, one objective being to en­ courage economies in ferrous scrap and the other not to exacerbate the difficulties in establishing new production capacities, since the High Authority is aware that there are steel-works which cannot effect econo­ mies in ferrous scrap and others which, in order to do so, would have to alter basically their manufacturing methods. Moreover there is a contradiction between the objec­ tives stated and the objectives actually pur­ sued. By obliging undertakings to effect economies in ferrous scrap of which they are technically incapable and by penalizing them if they fail to do so the High Author­ ity, contrary to the objective stated in the preamble to Decision No 2/57 is preventing them from increasing their production or taxing them in terms of ttie selling price of their products which has nothing to do with effecting economies in ferrous scrap.

The d fendant replies that this complaint does not constitute a submission of powers because it merely refers to the effects of the decision. The applicant is in fact confusing it with the second complaint (pursuit of an objective prohibited by Article 3 (d) and (g)).


The application is in the appropriate form and was submitted within the prescribed period.

The instruments appointing the agents and lawyers of the parties are in order.
The written procedure followed the normal course. The statements of the parties, with their related annexes, were lodged within the prescribed periods and were duly served.

251
