EISEN- UND STAHLINDUSTRIE v HIGH AUTHORITY


criteria laid down for finding the surplus consumption were fixed objectively they were sufficient and justified in terms of the situation to be controlled and of the objec­ tive to be pursued.

Sixth complaint: Misuse of powers with re­ gard to Article 65 of the Treaty.

The applicants state that it follows from the reference made in Article 53 (b) to Article 53 (a), and in Article 53 (a) to Article 65, that the High Authority was bound to ob­ serve the provisions of Article 65 (2)(b) un­ der which the agreement authorized must not be 'more restrictive than is necessary for that purpose'. The refusal to grant a refer­ ence consumption for plant to which Arti­ cle 6 (3) of the contested decision applies and the supplemehtary charge on excess consumption are more restrictive than is necessary for the equalization of imported ferrous scrap.
The d£;/endant replies that this constitutes a complaint of infringement of the Treaty. Moreover it is unfounded. The provisions of Article 65 on cartels can only be observed with regard to financial arrangements stem­ ming from private measures of undertak­ ings. This arises first and foremost from the very nature of things and further from the fact that there is a reference in Article 53 (a) to Article 65, which is lacking in Article 53 (b).

Seventh complaint: The High Authority has infringed Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 53, 54, 58, 59 and 65 of the Treaty together with Annex II thereto.

As has been stated above in connexion with the admissibility of the application the ap­ plicants maintain that the contested provi­ sions are individual in character and that they are accordingly entitled to rely upon the complaint of infringement of the Treaty. The applicants refer to their state­ ments relating to misuse of powers to show extent to which the High Authority has in­ fringed the Treaty in fact and in law. Furthermore, they consider that the con­ tested provisions violate the general princ­ iples of law because they are illogical, con­ tradictory  and  consequently  cannot  be

implemented in practice and are unaccept­ able to the persons concerned.
The defendant replies that Decision No 2/57 is general in character and that accordingly the complaints based upon infringement of the Treaty are inadmissible (cf. above: Admissibility).
With regard to the allegation that the con­ tested provisions violate the general prin­ ciples oflaw the High Authority replies that it discussed the interpretation of the deci­ sion with the Board of Directors of the OCCF. The fact that the High Authority did not concur in the OCCF's draft amend­ ments in no way establishes that Decision No 2/57 is incomprehensible, contradictory and impracticable.
4. Procedure

The application is in the appropriate form and was submitted within the prescribed period. The instruments appointing the agents and lawyers of the parties are in or­ der. The written procedure followed the normal course. The statements of the par­ ties, with their related annexes, were duly served. However, an additional statement was lodged by the applicants on 11 October 1957 after the expiry of the period pre­ scribed for lodging the reply.
The fourth applicant, Ruhrstahl Hattingen, withdrew from the proceedings at the hear­ ing in open court on 20 February 1958. By a letter dated 19 February 1958 which was submitted at the hearing, its agent ex­ plained that the electric furnace with a ca­ pacity of 80 metric tons which had been un­ der construction was put into operation on 24 January 1958 and that the Board of Ad­ ministration of the OCCF had decided on 18 March 1957 that the increased stocks of ferrous scrap were not to be considered as a supplementary consumption of bought scrap. Those two facts mean that the appli­ cant does not suffer any more harm from Decision No 2/57 than other German un­ dertakings operating a mixed works and ac­ cordingly it has no further interest in a spe­ cific application. This is a simple withdra­ wal. The concurrence of the defendant is scarcely necessary since the proceedings are for annulment (Rules of the Court, Article 81 (2)).

275
