JUDGMENT OF 12.7.1962 -JOINED CASES 42 AND 49/59-THIRD PARTY PROCEEDINGS


which can only be understood on the basis of the national law which is applicable in each case.
Furthermore, the third party considers that the Court may not use the wording of the contract in order to deduce from it that the arrangment concluded between Hoogovens and Breedband does not amount ot a 'maatschap' since, under the principles of law in force in each Member State, the real content of an agreement must be deter­ mined by examining its essential features and by seeking at the same time the common intention of the contracting parties.
 Having said this, the third party first of all considers the concept of the 'maatschap'which it defines asa contract concluded between two or more parties for the purpose of collaboration con­ sisting in the pursuit of a common aim. The essential features of such a contract are as follows:
(a) 	Each party must make contribu­ tions, which need not, according to the third party, consist of money or of other assets. Anything capable of forming the subject matter of any obligation as regards the transfer of ownership or the enjoyment of property also amounts to a conti:_ibution.
(b) The achievement, by means of these contributions, of a common aim consisting of the pursuit of a common profit.
(c) The division of this profit, and of any possible losses, between the associates according to established rules.

Hoogovens and Breedband, and to this end compares the provisions of the disputed contract with each of the characteristic features of the 'maatschap' set out above.
(a) As regards the 'contributions' the third party stresses that the two associates have established close collaboration in the joint manufacture of laminated products.
(b) As regards the 'common aim', it is clear from the contract at issue that it is through the close collaboration established between the companies, and through their contributions, that Hoogovens and Breedband hoped to make a common profit.
(c) The 'stipulation of a division of profits' (and of losses) is found in Articles 15 and 17 of the contract. This division is carried out in proportion to the contributions made.
(d) The 'equality of the associates' appears in several provisions of the contract, under which the associates have mutual obligations with regard to joint production and neither may claim a privileged position. Moreover, as regards the 'organization' of this collaboration, Articles 6 and 8 of the contract provide that Hoogovens shall be obliged to make available to the 'maatschap' its managerial staff and a whole series ofits departments.
(e) Finally, as regards the 'period of collaboration' between the two companies Article 23 of the contract stipulates that the contract has been concluded for an indefinite period and, except in certain specific cases, may only  be  terminated  by  mutual
(a) 
(d) Legal	equality collaboration associates.

and	organized between	the

agreement. The provision in Article 17 of the contract and in its first supplement, that Hoogovens shall be freed from the

(e) Collaboration of a lasting nature.
Secondly, the third party considers whether these factors are to be found in the  contract  concluded  between
154

obligation to supply slab to Breedband in agreed circumstances for so long as the common profit is insufficient to enable either Hoogovens or Breedband to cover 'out of pocket expenses', in no
